# source_id: eng_sss_guide_2021
# title: 英國語文課程及評估指引（中四至中六）（2021）
# fact_type: policy
# topic_tags: curriculum
# url: https://www.edb.gov.hk/attachment/en/curriculum-development/kla/eng-edu/Curriculum%20Document/English%20Language%20Curriculum%20and%20Assessment%20Guide%20(Secondary%204%20-%206)%20(2021).pdf
# source_type: pdf
# extracted: 20260501
# pipeline: expand_vault.py (auto)
# ============================================================

 
 
 
English Language Education 
Key Learning Area 
 
 
 
 
 
English Language 
Curriculum and Assessment Guide 
(Secondary 4 - 6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jointly prepared by the Curriculum Development Council and  
the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority 
 
 
Published for use in schools by the Education Bureau 
HKSARG 
2021   
Effective from Secondary 4 in the 2021/22 school year 

 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Contents 
 
Preamble 
i 
Chapter 1 
 Introduction 
1 
1.1 
Background 
1 
1.2 
Rationale 
2 
1.3 
Curriculum Aims 
2 
1.4 
Interface with the Junior Secondary Curriculum and  
 
Post-secondary Pathways 
3 
1.5 
Cross-curricular Links 
4 
Chapter 2 
 Curriculum Framework 
5 
2.1 
Aims of the English Language Curriculum 
5 
2.2 
The English Language Curriculum Framework 
6 
2.2.1 
Subject Knowledge and Skills 
6 
2.2.2 
Generic Skills 
6 
2.2.3 
Positive Values and Attitudes 
7 
2.3 
Subject Targets and Strands 
8 
2.3.1 
Subject Targets 
8 
2.3.2 
Strands 
8 
2.4 
Learning Objectives 
10 
2.4.1 
Language Forms and Communicative Functions 
10 
2.4.2 
Language Skills and Language Development Strategies 
12 
2.4.3 
Attitudes Specific to English Language Learning 
12 
2.5 
Curriculum Organisation 
13 
2.5.1 
Learning Time 
13 
2.5.2 
Modules of Learning 
13 
2.5.3 
Enrichment Components 
15 
Chapter 3 
 Curriculum Planning 
19 
3.1 
Guiding Principles 
19 
3.2 
Central Curriculum and School-based Curriculum Development 
20 
3.3 
Curriculum Planning Strategies 
20 
3.3.1 
Developing Modules of Learning Using the  
 
Module-Unit-Task Structure 
20 
3.3.2 
Developing Learner Independence and Self-directed  
 
Learning Skills 
23 
3.3.3 
Extending Language Learning beyond the Classroom 
23 

 
 
3.3.4 
Cross-curricular Planning 
23 
3.3.5 
Cross-curricular Learning through Applied Learning 
25 
3.3.6 
Promoting the Creative Use of English through  
 
Language Arts 
26 
3.3.7 
Catering for Learner Diversity 
26 
3.3.8 
Flexible Use of Learning Time 
27 
3.3.9 
Flexible Grouping and Class Organisation 
27 
3.4 
Managing the Curriculum 
28 
Chapter 4 
 Learning and Teaching 
29 
4.1 
Guiding Principles 
29 
4.2 
Approaches and Strategies 
30 
4.2.1 
Task-based Learning and Teaching 
30 
4.2.2 
Learning and Teaching of the Four Language Skills 
33 
4.2.3 
Promoting the Academic Use of English 
42 
4.2.4 
Promoting the Creative Use of English 
43 
4.2.5 
Providing Timely Support in the Learning and  
 
Teaching Process 
49 
4.2.6 
Adopting e-Learning in the English Language Classroom 50 
4.2.7 
Promoting Self-directed Learning 
51 
4.2.8 
Meaningful Assignments 
53 
4.3 
Catering for Learner Diversity in the English Language Classroom 
55 
Chapter 5 
 Assessment 
61 
5.1 
The Roles of Assessment 
61 
5.2 
Formative and Summative Assessments 
61 
5.3 
Assessment Objectives 
63 
5.4 
Internal Assessment 
64 
5.4.1 
Guiding Principles 
65 
5.4.2 
Internal Assessment Practices 
66 
5.5 
Public Assessment 
68 
5.5.1 
Guiding Principles 
68 
5.5.2 
Assessment Design 
69 
5.5.3 
Public Examinations 
69 
5.5.4 
School-based Assessment (SBA) 
70 
5.5.5  
Standards and Reporting of Results 
71 
Chapter 6 
 Effective Use of Learning and Teaching Resources 
73 
6.1 
Purpose and Function of Learning and Teaching Resources 
73 
6.2 
Guiding Principles 
73 

 
 
6.3 
Types of Resources 
73 
6.3.1 
Textbooks 
73 
6.3.2 
Other Resource Materials 
74 
6.3.3 
Resource Materials by the Education Bureau 
74 
6.3.4 
Information Technology 
75 
6.3.5 
Community Resources 
75 
6.4 
Flexible Use of Learning and Teaching Resources 
77 
6.5 
Resource Management 
77 
Appendices 
79 
1 Language Items and Communicative Functions for Key Stages 3 – 4 
(Secondary 1 – 6) 
79 
2 Helping Students Develop Vocabulary Building Strategies 
85 
3 Examples of Text Types for Key Stages 1 – 4 (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) 89 
4 Language Skills and Language Development Strategies for Key Stage 4 
(Secondary 4 – 6) 
91 
5 Attitudes Specific to English Language Learning for Key Stages 1 – 4  
(Primary 1 – Secondary 6) 
95 
Glossary 
97 
Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on  English Language 
101 
 
 
 

 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 

 
i 
 
Preamble 
 
This Curriculum and Assessment (C&A) Guide, jointly prepared by the Curriculum Development 
Council (CDC) and the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority (HKEAA) in 2021,  
is based on the goals of senior secondary education and on other official curriculum and 
assessment documents, including the Basic Education Curriculum Guide (2002), the Basic 
Education Curriculum Guide – To Sustain, Deepen and Focus on Learning to Learn (2014), the 
Senior Secondary Curriculum Guide (2009) and the Secondary Education Curriculum Guide 
(2017). It is published for use in secondary schools and should be read in conjunction with all 
related documents. 
 
The CDC is an advisory body that gives recommendations to the Government of the HKSAR on 
all matters relating to curriculum development for the school system from the kindergarten level 
to the senior secondary level. Its membership includes heads of schools, practising teachers, 
parents, employers, academics from tertiary institutions, professionals from related fields/bodies, 
representatives from the HKEAA and the Vocational Training Council, as well as officers from 
the Education Bureau. 
 
The HKEAA is an independent statutory body responsible for the conduct of public assessment, 
including the assessment for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE). Its 
governing council includes members from the school sector, tertiary institutions and government 
bodies, as well as professionals and members of the business community. The subject curriculum 
forms the basis of the assessment designed and administered by the HKEAA. In this connection, 
the HKEAA will issue a handbook to provide information on the rules and regulations of the 
HKDSE Examination as well as the framework and format of the public assessment for each 
subject. 
 
The CDC and the HKEAA will keep the subject curriculum under constant review and evaluation 
in the light of classroom experiences, student performance in the public assessment, and the 
changing needs of students and society. All comments and suggestions on this C&A Guide can 
be sent to:  
 
English Language Education Section 
Curriculum Development Institute 
Education Bureau 
Room 1206, Wu Chung House 
213 Queen’s Road East 
Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Fax: 2834 7810 
Email: english@edb.gov.hk 

 
 
(Blank Page) 

1 
 
 
Chapter 1  Introduction 
 
This chapter provides the background, rationale and aims of English Language as a core subject 
in the three-year senior secondary curriculum, and highlights how it articulates with the junior 
secondary curriculum, post-secondary education, and future career pathways. 
 
1.1 
Background 
 
The English Language Curriculum and Assessment Guide (Secondary 4 – 6) was first published 
in 2007. With the implementation of the New Academic Structure in senior secondary in 2009 and 
the inaugural Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination in 2012, the Short-term 
Review and the Medium-term Review were conducted in 2012 and 2014 respectively to fine-tune 
the senior secondary English Language curriculum and assessment. Following the 
recommendations set out in the two reviews, the English Language Curriculum and Assessment 
Guide (Secondary 4 – 6) (2007) was updated in January 2014 and November 2015. 
 
In 2017, the English Language Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – 
Secondary 6) and Secondary Education Curriculum Guide (2017) were released to provide further 
information and updates on the direction for the development of the English Language Education 
curriculum. In the same year, the Task Force on Review of School Curriculum (Task Force) was 
set up to holistically review the primary and secondary curricula. Upon completion of the review, 
the Task Force submitted the final report entitled “Optimise the curriculum for the future, Foster 
whole-person development and diverse talents” in September 2020. With due consideration given 
to the recommendations set out in the review report, the relevant committees under the Curriculum 
Development Council and the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority formulated 
the measures to create space for students and cater for learner diversity announced in Education 
Bureau Circular Memorandum No.39/2021 “Measures to Optimise the Four Senior Secondary 
Core Subjects”. This Guide was updated to incorporate the directions set out in the two aforesaid 
curriculum guides, the review report and the circular memorandum for use by schools from 
Secondary 4 in the 2021/22 school year. 
 
The English Language Curriculum and Assessment Guide (Secondary 4 – 6) (2021) delineates the 
overall aims as well as the learning targets and objectives of the subject. It also provides guidelines, 
suggestions and examples to promote effective learning, teaching and assessment practices, and to 
help schools and teachers plan, develop and implement their own school-based curriculum. For a 
more comprehensive understanding of the curriculum, this Guide should be read in conjunction 
with the English Language Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – 
Secondary 6) (2017). 
 

2 
 
 
1.2 
Rationale 
 
The rationale for studying English Language as a core subject at the senior secondary level is 
presented below: 
 
 
English is the language of global communication. With the rapid development of the Internet 
and technology, English has become not only a powerful learning tool, a medium by which 
people gain access to knowledge from around the world, but also a medium through which 
they develop positive values and attitudes, establish and maintain meaningful relationships 
with people, increase their cultural understanding and expand their knowledge and world-
views. 
 
English is the language of international business, trade and professional communication. 
Traditionally much emphasis has been placed on English language learning in school. Such 
a tradition must be continued, since proficiency in English is essential for helping Hong Kong 
maintain its current status and further strengthen its competitiveness as a leading finance, 
banking and business centre in the world. 
 
English plays a crucial role in empowering students with the capabilities necessary for 
lifelong learning, critical thinking, problem solving, creativity, and innovation and for 
adapting to the rapid changes and demands of society. 
 
English opens up a world of leisure and entertainment for students. 
 
The mastery of English is, therefore, vital to students in Hong Kong, as it opens up new 
possibilities for intellectual and social development, educational attainment, career advancement, 
personal fulfilment, and cultural understanding. 
 
1.3 
Curriculum Aims 
 
English Language (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) is a core subject in the English Language Education 
Key Learning Area (KLA) curriculum, whereas Literature in English (Secondary 4 – 6) is an 
elective subject. The curriculum framework for the English Language Education provides an 
overall structure for organising learning and teaching for both subjects. The overall aims of the 
English Language Education curriculum are: 
 
 
to provide every student of English with further opportunities for extending their knowledge 
and experience of the cultures of other people as well as opportunities for personal and 
intellectual development, further studies, pleasure and work in the English medium; and 
 
to enable every student to prepare for the changing socio-economic demands resulting from 
advances in information technology; these demands include the interpretation, use and 
production of materials for pleasure, study and work in the English medium. 

3 
 
 
1.4 
Interface with the Junior Secondary Curriculum and Post-secondary 
Pathways 
 
The senior secondary English Language curriculum (Secondary 4 – 6) is premised on the tenet 
that a person’s development is a rising continuum and that a lifelong approach should be adopted 
for English Language curriculum planning and development, rather than a selective approach 
exemplified by separate and isolated syllabuses. The senior secondary curriculum is therefore part 
of the English Language Curriculum designed for the full range of diversity of students from 
Primary 1 to Secondary 6. 
 
While the six-year primary curriculum focuses on laying the foundation of English Language 
development, the secondary curriculum at both junior and senior levels focuses on the application 
of English for various everyday learning and developmental purposes. Specifically, the senior 
secondary English Language curriculum comprises a broad range of learning targets, objectives 
and outcomes that help students consolidate what they have learnt from Primary 1 to Secondary 3, 
as well as broaden and deepen their learning experiences to help them develop the necessary 
language knowledge and skills for their future needs, whether they choose to pursue vocational 
and professional training, or university education, or to work after they complete secondary 
education. 
 
To prepare students for the senior secondary English Language curriculum, a solid groundwork 
must be laid at the junior secondary level. Schools are encouraged to continue with the following 
practices to build a strong interface between the junior and senior secondary curricula: 
 
 
Make use of the learning targets and objectives and the broad learning outcomes provided in 
the English Language curriculum framework to plan and develop a coherent school-based 
language curriculum with built-in pedagogical approaches which facilitate learning 
progression and which suit students’ needs, interests and abilities at both junior and senior 
secondary levels. 
 
Provide a language-rich environment to encourage students to learn and use English, and to 
support their learning of other subjects in English. 
 
Make use of a broad range of activities and materials (including those involving the use of 
creative or imaginative texts) to enhance students’ motivation, and to develop their creativity, 
critical thinking skills and problem solving skills. 
 
Promote a habit of reading and the academic use of English to equip students with essential 
language knowledge and skills to cope with the language demands from other subjects using 
English as the medium of instruction and prepare them for further studies/higher education.   
 
Develop learning-to-learn skills as well as positive values and attitudes conducive to 
independent and lifelong language learning. 

4 
 
 
 
Provide, if appropriate, additional support (e.g. materials adaptation, promotion of cross-
curricular and extra-curricular language learning, designing activities to develop students’ 
self-directed language learning strategies) to prepare classes for the switch to the English 
medium of instruction at Secondary 4. 
 
By broadening and enriching students’ knowledge, skills and experience, the senior secondary 
English Language curriculum also provides a firm foundation for further studies, vocational and 
professional training and work. It opens up a variety of post-secondary educational and career 
pathways, particularly in the areas of language and communication, translation, media production, 
performing arts, education, business, law and social sciences. 
 
1.5 
Cross-curricular Links 
 
Consistent with the primary and junior secondary English Language curricula, the senior 
secondary English Language curriculum recognises the importance of fostering greater connection 
between English Language and other subjects through Language across the Curriculum and 
Reading across the Curriculum. Such a vision is rooted in the belief that students should explore 
knowledge and gain experience in a comprehensive and integrative manner. When they are able 
to make connections among ideas and language use, their motivation will be raised and their 
learning strengthened. Likewise, the knowledge they acquire, and the skills and positive attitudes 
they develop in each KLA will be enhanced.  
 
To facilitate the transition from school to work, it is desirable for the senior secondary English 
Language curriculum to widen students’ exposure to language use in simulated workplace or 
applied learning contexts. Schools may explore ways to establish connection between English 
Language and Applied Learning (ApL), which is a valued elective subject in the senior secondary 
curriculum. For more information on cross-curricular collaboration in curriculum planning and 
development as well as the provision of English-related ApL courses, such as Applied Learning 
(Vocational English), please refer to Sections 3.3.4 and 3.3.5. 
 
 

5 
 
 
Chapter 2  Curriculum Framework 
 
The curriculum framework for English Language embodies the key knowledge, skills, values and 
attitudes that students are to develop at the senior secondary level. It forms the basis on which 
schools and teachers plan their school-based curriculum and design appropriate learning, teaching 
and assessment activities. 
 
2.1 
Aims of the English Language Curriculum 
 
In alignment with the overall aims of the English Language Education curriculum in Section 1.3, 
the English Language curriculum aims to: 
 
 
provide students with learning experiences to increase their language proficiency for study, 
work, leisure and personal enrichment; 
 
develop their knowledge, skills, values and attitudes; and 
 
promote lifelong learning so as to enhance their personal and intellectual development, 
cultural understanding and global competitiveness. 
 
The English Language curriculum at the senior secondary level specifically aims to enable students 
to: 
 
 
broaden and deepen the language competencies they have developed from Primary 1 to 
Secondary 3, so that they are able to use English with increasing proficiency for personal and 
intellectual development, effective social interaction, further studies, vocational and 
professional training, work and pleasure; 
 
further develop their interest and confidence in using English as their understanding and 
mastery of the language grow; 
 
further broaden their knowledge, understanding and experience of various cultures in which 
English is used; 
 
develop and prepare themselves for further studies, vocational and professional training or 
work; and 
 
further develop learning-to-learn skills and positive values and attitudes conducive to meeting 
the needs of our rapidly changing knowledge-based society. These include the interpretation, 
use and production of texts for pleasure, study and work in the English medium. 
 
 
 

6 
 
 
2.2 
The English Language Curriculum Framework 
 
The English Language curriculum framework sets out what students should know, value and be 
able to do at various stages of schooling from Primary 1 to Secondary 6. It gives schools and 
teachers flexibility and ownership to plan and develop a range of diverse strategies to meet 
their students’ varied needs. 
The curriculum framework comprises a set of interlocking components including: 
 
subject knowledge and skills; 
 
generic skills; and 
 
positive values and attitudes. 
 
The three interconnected components above can be represented in the figure below: 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1 Subject Knowledge and Skills 
 
Subject knowledge and skills are expressed in the form of learning targets in the Interpersonal, 
Knowledge and Experience Strands, and learning objectives, which will be further explained in 
Sections 2.3 and 2.4. 
 
2.2.2 Generic Skills 
 
The component of generic skills is fundamental in enabling students to learn how to learn. They 
include:  
 
Basic Skills 
Thinking Skills 
Personal and Social Skills 
Communication Skills 
Critical Thinking Skills 
Self-management Skills 
Mathematical Skills 
Creativity 
Self-learning Skills 
IT Skills 
Problem Solving Skills 
Collaboration Skills 
 
These skills are to be developed through learning and teaching in all the Key Learning Areas 
(KLAs). To a large extent, they are embedded in the curriculum content of English Language and 
Knowledge 
Generic Skills 
Values & Attitudes 

7 
 
 
often used integratively when complex tasks are involved. Collaboration, communication, 
creativity, critical thinking, problem solving and self-learning skills are in particular nurtured 
through its delivery.  
 
For more information, please refer to Appendix 7 of the English Language Education Key 
Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) (2017). 
 
2.2.3 Positive Values and Attitudes  
 
Values underpin our conduct and decisions. Attitudes are personal dispositions, which may affect 
our behaviour positively or negatively. Students need to develop positive attitudes such as 
responsibility, open-mindedness and co-operativeness for healthy development. Among all 
values and attitudes, perseverance, respect for others, responsibility, national identity, 
commitment, integrity, care for others, law-abidingness and empathy have been identified as the 
nine priority values and attitudes.  
 
For more information, please refer to Appendices 8 and 9 of the English Language Education Key 
Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) (2017). 
 
To illustrate the inter-relationship between different curriculum components, a diagrammatic 
representation of the English Language curriculum framework is provided below: 
 
English Language Curriculum Framework 
 
 
 
 
Aims of the English Language Curriculum 
To provide students with learning experiences to increase their language 
proficiency for study, work, leisure and personal enrichment; 
To develop their knowledge, skills, values and attitudes; and 
To promote lifelong learning so as to enhance their personal and intellectual 
development, cultural understanding and global competitiveness. 
Strands 
Interpersonal 
Knowledge 
Experience 
Learning Targets and Learning Objectives 
Flexible and diversified modes of curriculum planning 
+ 
Effective learning, teaching and assessment 
Generic Skills 
Values and Attitudes 

8 
 
 
2.3 
Subject Targets and Strands 
 
2.3.1 Subject Targets 
 
The subject target of English Language is for students to develop an ever-improving capability to 
use English: 
 
to think and communicate; 
 
to acquire, develop and apply knowledge; and 
 
to respond and give expression to experience; 
and within these contexts, to develop and apply an ever-increasing understanding of how language 
is organised, used and learnt. 
 
2.3.2 Strands 
 
The curriculum content and learning targets of English Language are primarily organised under 
three interrelated Strands:  
 
Interpersonal Strand 
 
Knowledge Strand  
 
Experience Strand 
 
Strands are categories for organising the curriculum. Their major function is to organise content 
for the purpose of developing knowledge, skills, and values and attitudes as a holistic process. 
They also define the broad purposes of learning English Language. 
 
At the senior secondary level, students are expected to achieve the following targets for English 
Language under the three Strands. These are built on those for Key Stage 3 (Secondary 1 – 3): 
 
Interpersonal Strand 
 
a. 
to establish and maintain relationships and routines in school, community and work 
situations 
b. 
to converse, discuss, compare, argue, evaluate and justify points of view about feelings, 
interests, preferences, ideas, experiences and plans 
c. 
to communicate a range of more complex messages, both oral and written, for different 
audiences and purposes 
d. 
to participate with others in planning, developing, organising, carrying out and evaluating 
more complex and extended events 
e. 
to obtain and provide objects, services and information in a wider and more complex 
range of real and simulated situations 

9 
 
 
Knowledge Strand 
 
a. 
to provide or find out, select, analyse, organise and present information on familiar and 
unfamiliar topics 
b. 
to interpret and use more extensive and complex information through processes or 
activities such as ordering, describing, defining, classifying, comparing, explaining, 
justifying, predicting, inferring, summarising, synthesising, evaluating and drawing 
conclusions 
c. 
to identify and discuss critically ideas, issues, themes, arguments, views and attitudes in 
spoken and written texts, make connections, refine or generate ideas, and express or apply 
them 
d. 
to identify and define more complex problems from given information, consider related 
factors, explore and discuss options, solve the problems, evaluate and justify the solutions, or 
offer alternatives 
e. 
to develop, refine and re-organise ideas, and to improve expression by making appropriate 
revisions to one’s own written texts independently and collaboratively 
f. 
to understand how the English language works in a wide range of contexts and how 
more complex texts are organised and expressed; and apply this understanding to one’s 
learning and use of the language 
 
Experience Strand 
 
a. 
to develop a response to a wider range of imaginative or literary texts1 through activities such 
as: 
- 
participating in the presentation of such texts 
- 
identifying, interpreting and discussing themes 
- 
appreciating the use of language including the use of rhythm and rhyme, other 
sound patterns and rhetorical devices 
b. 
to respond to characters, events, issues and themes in imaginative and other narrative texts 
through oral, written and performative means such as:  
- 
making predictions and inferences 
- 
analysing the actions and motivations of characters and the significance of events 
- 
relating the characters and events to one’s own experiences 
- 
articulating and presenting one’s views and feelings 
- 
putting oneself in the roles and situations in the story 
 
                                                          
1 Throughout this document, the term “imaginative or literary texts” refers to a broad range of language arts materials 
including poems, novels, short stories, dramas, films, film scripts, jokes, advertisements, song lyrics, radio and 
television programmes, etc. 

10 
 
 
- 
participating in dramatic presentations and reflecting on the way in which authors use 
language to create effects 
c. 
to give expression to imaginative ideas through oral, written and performative means such as: 
- 
reading aloud and solo or choral speaking 
- 
role-plays, dramatic presentations or improvisation 
- 
providing oral and written descriptions (or drawings) to illustrate one’s personal 
response to a situation, object or character, or one’s analysis of them 
- 
writing journals or diaries 
- 
writing stories with a sound awareness of purpose and appropriate development of plot 
and character 
- 
creating poems and lyrics 
- 
creating short dramatic episodes 
d. 
to give expression to one’s experience through activities such as providing oral and written 
descriptions of feelings and events, dramatic presentations or monologues, incorporating 
where appropriate reflections on their significance 
 
2.4 
Learning Objectives 
 
Learning objectives define more specifically what students are expected to learn. They serve as 
a reference list for curriculum, lesson and activity planning. The learning objectives for English 
Language at the senior secondary level are built on those for Key Stage 3 (Secondary 1 – 3) 
and are organised under the following general areas: 
 
 
Language Forms and Communicative Functions; 
 
Language Skills and Language Development Strategies; and 
 
Attitudes Specific to English Language Learning. 
 
2.4.1 Language Forms and Communicative Functions 
 
Language Items and Communicative Functions 
 
Language items include a range of grammatical forms and structures that students need to develop 
as they perform the communicative functions. Students at the senior secondary level should 
already have encountered most of the essential structures of English and have applied them in 
various situations. Items learnt at Key Stage 3 (Secondary 1 – 3) should be consolidated and 
extended to a greater degree of complexity at this level. 
 
The language items and communicative functions that students are expected to learn in Key 
Stages 3 – 4 (Secondary 1 – 6) are outlined in Appendix 1 of this Guide. The list is by no means 

11 
 
 
exhaustive. Exponents may vary according to contextual elements, such as physical location and 
the relative social status of the addresser and the addressee. Teachers are encouraged to provide 
meaningful contexts in which the language items can be used for purposeful communication. 
 
Vocabulary 
 
The vocabulary items that students encounter, acquire and use at each key stage vary with the tasks 
and the amount of language support that students experience in the learning process. Students need 
to be exposed to an increasingly wide range of vocabulary items, including phrasal verbs, idioms 
and fixed expressions to help them communicate and carry out various learning tasks effectively. 
Vocabulary is best introduced in context using reading, listening or multimodal texts, and practised 
through tasks and language games. In helping students build vocabulary, besides identifying 
whether the target words are for active or passive use, teachers should also take note of their 
frequency of occurrence across different text types and the vocabulary demand in non-language 
subjects. It is not advisable to prescribe a vocabulary list out of context or provide a list of 
unfamiliar words with explanations and their different parts of speech for rote learning. 
 
It is also essential to introduce students to a range of vocabulary building strategies such as: 
 
using knowledge of word formation 
 
using knowledge of collocations 
 
using knowledge of lexical relations 
 
guessing meaning and inferencing with available clues 
 
using dictionaries and thesauri 
 
creating word webs to record words learnt 
 
retaining words using mnemonics 
 
For more information on how to help students develop and use these strategies, please refer to 
Appendix 2 of this Guide. 
 
Text Types 
 
Text types refer to different forms of speech and writing. The intended purpose and audience of 
each text type determine its structural, stylistic and linguistic features. 
 
To assist students in their development as proficient users of English, it is important that they are 
introduced systematically to a good variety of text types. Different text types provide meaningful 
contexts for the learning and purposeful use of specific language items and vocabulary. An 
awareness of the demands of different text types is essential for successful and effective 
communication. 

12 
 
 
The range of text types widens at higher levels of learning. At the same time, the text types that 
students are exposed to and expected to produce increase in complexity according to the levels of 
learning. The selection of text types will depend on students’ needs, experiences and interests and 
it may also partly depend on the resource materials available for students. While students may only 
be required to produce a limited range of text types in writing and speaking, they can be exposed 
to other text types through reading and listening. 
 
For the text types that students are expected to have encountered from Key Stages 1 – 4 (Primary 
1 – Secondary 6), please refer to Appendix 3 of this Guide. The list is not intended as a checklist. 
Rather, it suggests the variety and range of texts that students may be exposed to and produce at 
each key stage. 
 
2.4.2 Language Skills and Language Development Strategies 
 
In order for students to be able to use English effectively for the purposes described in the learning 
targets, it is essential that they develop competence in the skills of listening, speaking, reading and 
writing. Students also need to develop language development strategies in order to become 
motivated, independent and responsible for their own learning. For the English language skills 
and language development strategies that students are expected to develop at Key Stage 4 
(Secondary 4 – 6), please refer to Appendix 4 of this Guide. 
 
2.4.3 Attitudes Specific to English Language Learning 
 
The development of positive attitudes, along with knowledge and skills, is an integral part of the 
English Language curriculum. Opportunities for exploring, developing and encouraging positive 
attitudes should be provided in all English learning tasks. Some positive attitudes (e.g. confidence 
in using English) should be further developed when students move towards a higher level of 
learning. Some other positive attitudes (e.g. an open-minded attitude towards different cultures, 
ideologies and points of view) will only be consciously developed in specific tasks. For the 
attitudes specific to English language learning for Key Stages 1 – 4 (Primary 1 – Secondary 6), 
please refer to Appendix 5 of this Guide. 
 
 
 

13 
 
 
2.5 
Curriculum Organisation  
 
2.5.1 Learning Time 
 
English learning is not confined to English lessons or school hours. Students’ learning time 
includes: 
 
 
lesson time (i.e. English lessons); 
 
school time other than lesson time (e.g. assembly, recess, lunch, before/after school, open day, 
post-examination activity day); and 
 
time outside of school (e.g. weekends, holidays, time after school). 
 
As a core subject, English Language accounts for 10.5% – 13% of the total lesson time for the 
senior secondary curriculum2. Schools are reminded that learning time is not rigidly calculated 
according to the number of English lessons per week or cycle. To cater for learner diversity, they 
are 
encouraged 
to 
allocate 
additional 
learning 
time 
to 
conduct 
differentiation 
programmes/activities 
(e.g. 
pull-out 
remedial/enrichment 
programmes, 
cross-curricular 
programmes such as Language across the Curriculum and Reading across the Curriculum), and 
make flexible use of the time during and outside school hours to integrate English learning into 
Other Learning Experiences and Life-wide Learning. With due consideration to holistic planning 
at the whole school and KLA levels, schools can flexibly make timetabling arrangements to enrich 
students’ English learning experiences.  
 
For more information on how to extend language learning beyond the classroom and make 
effective use of learning time to cater for learner diversity, please refer to Chapter 3 of this Guide.  
 
2.5.2 Modules of Learning 
 
The structure of modules, units and tasks is recommended for organising the learning and teaching 
of the English Language curriculum. A module is an organising focus which can be broken down 
into units and tasks that are thematically or conceptually related. These themes and concepts are 
explored through tasks to help students make connections between their learning experiences.  
 
When designing the English Language curriculum with the modules, units and tasks as the 
organising structure, teachers are encouraged to expose students to a variety of themes to broaden 
                                                          
2 Starting from Secondary 4 in the 2021/22 school year, the four senior secondary core subjects are optimised to release 
lesson time for flexible arrangements to cater for learner diversity. Under the optimising arrangements in 2021, it is 
recommended that the four senior secondary core subjects take up no more than half of the total lesson time. For more 
information, please refer to the Supplementary Notes to the Secondary Education Curriculum Guide (2017). 

14 
 
 
their learning experiences. Below is a list of suggested modules and units for the senior secondary 
level: 
 
 
Getting along with Others 
- 
Friendship and Dating 
- 
Sharing, Co-operation, Rivalry 
 
Study, School Life and Work 
- 
Study and Related Pleasure/Problems 
- 
Experiments and Projects 
- 
Occupations, Careers and Prospects 
 
Cultures of the World 
- 
Travelling and Visiting 
- 
Customs, Clothing and Food of Different Places 
 
Wonderful Things 
- 
Successful People and Amazing Deeds 
- 
Great Stories 
- 
Precious Things 
 
Nature and Environment 
- 
Protecting the Environment 
- 
Resources and Energy Conservation 
- 
Biodiversity 
- 
Animal Protection 
 
The Individual and Society 
- 
Crime 
- 
Human Rights (personal rights, civic rights, respect) 
 
Communicating 
- 
The Media and Publications 
- 
The Internet 
 
Technology 
- 
Changes Brought about by Technology 
 
Leisure and Entertainment 
- 
The World of Sports 
- 
“Showbiz” 
 
 
 

15 
 
 
2.5.3 Enrichment Components 
 
To add variety to the English Language curriculum, broaden students’ learning experiences and 
cater for their diverse needs and interests, the following elements are to be incorporated:  
 
Language Arts Elements3 
Non-language Arts Elements3 
Drama 
Sports Communication 
Short Stories 
Debating 
Poems and Songs  
Social Issues  
Popular Culture 
Workplace Communication 
 
Schools are encouraged to use the above elements to extend and deepen learning and enrich 
students’ language learning experiences. Based on school contexts and students’ needs, teachers 
are free to decide which of the above elements to teach, the breadth and depth of teaching, as well 
as the amount of time to be allocated to the enrichment components. The incorporation of these 
elements in the school-based curriculum aims to widen students’ language exposure and heighten 
their language and cultural awareness, as well as to provide opportunities for application and 
integrative use of language and generic skills (e.g. creativity, critical thinking skills, 
communication skills).  
 
The above elements can be flexibly and easily integrated into different modules of learning 
suggested in this Guide. The table below shows some examples: 
 
Suggested Modules and 
Units 
Enrichment 
Components 
Suggested Activities 
Getting along with Others 
 Friendship and Dating 
 Sharing, Co-operation, 
Rivalry 
 Drama 
 Poems and Songs 
 Developing a script and role-
playing a scene on the conflict 
between two friends 
 Listening to songs about friendship 
and love and understanding the 
theme and figurative language used 
in the lyrics 
Study, School Life and Work 
 Study and Related 
Pleasure/Problems 
 Experiments and Projects 
 Popular Culture 
 Workplace 
Communication 
 Writing a letter for a newspaper 
column to offer advice on teenage 
problems 
                                                          
3 These elements are taken from the eight elective modules of the Elective Part of the previous curriculum. Under the 
optimising arrangements in 2021, there is no division between the Compulsory and Elective Parts. 

16 
 
 
 Occupations, Careers 
and Prospects 
 Conducting a mock job-interview in 
a Career Expo 
Cultures of the World 
 Travelling and Visiting 
 Customs, Clothing and 
Food of Different Places 
 Poems and Songs  
 Popular Culture 
 
 Reading poems and listening to folk 
songs about other places and 
cultures  
 Reading reviews on travel blogs and 
websites to plan trips and itineraries 
Wonderful Things 
 Successful People and 
Amazing Deeds 
 Great Stories 
 Precious Things 
 Short Stories 
 Sports 
Communication 
 Reading 
stories/biographies 
of 
Nobel laureates 
 Watching documentaries of famous 
athletes 
Nature and Environment 
 Protecting the 
Environment 
 Resources and Energy 
Conservation 
 Biodiversity 
 Animal Protection 
 Debating  
 Social Issues 
 Conducting 
a 
debate 
on 
environmental 
conservation 
vs 
economic development 
 Designing a questionnaire and 
conducting 
a 
mini-survey 
on 
sustainable development 
 
The Individual and Society 
 Crime 
 Human Rights (personal 
rights, civic rights, 
respect) 
 Short Stories 
 Social Issues 
 Reading and analysing the theme 
and plot of a detective story 
 Giving 
a 
speech 
on 
discrimination/the importance of an 
inclusive community 
Communicating 
 The Media and 
Publications 
 The Internet 
 Social Issues 
 Workplace 
Communication 
 Discussing the pros and cons of 
social 
media 
and 
suggesting 
solutions to problems caused 
 Writing a memorandum to staff on 
cyber security at the workplace 
Technology 
 Changes Brought about 
by Technology 
 Debating 
 Social Issues 
 Conducting a debate on whether 
Artificial Intelligence does more 
harm than good 
 Writing an article about how 
technology 
changes 
the 
ways 
students learn 
Leisure and Entertainment 
 The World of Sports 
 “Showbiz” 
 Sports 
Communication 
 Drama 
 Writing a proposal to suggest a new 
sport to be included in the Olympic 
Games/a new city to host the 
Olympic Games 
 Recreating the ending of a play/ 
musical 

17 
 
 
Schools should exercise professional judgement and flexibility over the choice of learning 
elements for integration into the theme-based learning modules. Alternatively, they can select 
appropriate learning elements as the focus for some short school-based modules/programmes (e.g. 
“Exploring Short Stories”, “Fun with Drama”) or activities (e.g. inter-class debating competition, 
song dedication activities, drama performance)4.  
 
 
                                                          
4 Schools may refer to the Suggested Schemes of Work for the Elective Part of the Three-year Senior Secondary 
English Language Curriculum (Secondary 4 – 6) (2007) and the resource packages on the eight elective modules in 
the previous curriculum for more topics and activities they can adapt when designing their school-based curriculum. 
The relevant resources can be accessed at https://edb.gov.hk/en/curriculum-development/kla/eng-edu/references-
resources.html. 

18 
 
 
(Blank Page) 
 

19 
 
 
Chapter 3  Curriculum Planning 
 
This chapter provides guidelines to help schools and teachers develop a flexible and balanced 
curriculum that suits the needs, interests and abilities of their students, and the contexts of their 
schools, in accordance with the central framework provided in Chapter 2 of this Guide. 
 
 
3.1 
Guiding Principles 
 
The senior secondary English Language curriculum allows for flexibility and innovation in 
curriculum planning. To provide access to a rich variety of learning experiences, a balanced and 
coherent school-based curriculum emphasising the active role of students in the learning process 
should be developed. When planning and developing their own English Language curriculum at 
the senior secondary level, schools and teachers are encouraged to: 
 
 
facilitate continuity with the junior secondary curriculum through a comprehensive coverage 
of the learning targets and objectives to promote integrative use of skills and provide balanced 
and diversified learning experiences in the Interpersonal, Knowledge and Experience Strands; 
 
plan and devise appropriate and purposeful language learning materials, tasks and projects to 
develop students’ language abilities, critical thinking skills, creativity, learning to learn 
strategies, and positive values and attitudes conducive to lifelong learning; 
 
set and work on clear and manageable curriculum goals to develop a progressive and 
appropriate curriculum that serves to bring about pleasurable, meaningful and productive 
language learning experiences; 
 
work closely together as a team to plan the senior secondary English Language curriculum, 
to select and develop learning materials, activities and tasks, and to collaborate with teachers 
of other Key Learning Areas (KLAs) on promoting Language across the Curriculum (LaC) 
and Reading across the Curriculum (RaC) to heighten students’ awareness of the academic 
use of English; 
 
use textbooks and other language learning resources, including authentic materials, 
appropriately to suit students’ needs and interests; 
 
make flexible use of learning time to facilitate learning (e.g. re-scheduling lesson time, 
implementing long and short days and using time during and outside school hours for Other 
Learning Experiences (OLE), Life-wide Learning (LWL) activities and school-based 
programmes that promote language learning and address students’ learning needs); 
 
collect and reflect on evidence of effective learning and teaching to inform further curriculum 
development; 
 
make use of both formative assessment (e.g. process writing, projects, portfolios) and 
summative assessment to inform learning and teaching, taking into account the School-based 

20 
 
 
Assessment (SBA) implementation arrangements as specified in Chapter 5 of this Guide; and 
 
plan and review the curriculum flexibly and make appropriate re-adjustments where 
necessary. 
 
3.2 
Central Curriculum and School-based Curriculum Development 
 
The open and flexible senior secondary English Language curriculum framework delineated in this 
document sets out the following key learning elements: 
 
 
subject knowledge and skills developed through the learning targets and objectives of the 
English Language curriculum; 
 
generic skills; and 
 
positive values and attitudes. 
 
Schools are strongly encouraged to capitalise on this central framework to develop their own 
school-based curriculum, taking into consideration factors such as students’ needs, interests and 
abilities, teachers’ readiness, and the school context. It is recommended that schools: 
 
 
make purposeful use of tasks and activities and ensure a balanced coverage of the learning 
targets in the Interpersonal, Knowledge and Experience Strands, learning objectives such as 
grammatical forms and communicative functions, and the four skills; 
 
extend students’ learning experiences through promoting the academic and creative uses of 
English, and cater for their different needs, abilities and interests with the use of both language 
arts and non-language arts materials; and 
 
make better use of formative assessment to enhance learning and teaching through providing 
timely feedback to help students make improvements and teachers review teaching plans and 
strategies. 
 
3.3 
Curriculum Planning Strategies 
 
Consideration could be given to the following when planning the school-based senior secondary 
English Language curriculum.  
 
3.3.1 Developing Modules of Learning Using the Module-Unit-Task Structure 
 
Teachers are encouraged to adopt the task-based approach and make use of the structure of 
Modules, Units and Tasks (the M-U-T structure) to organise learning and teaching. A module is 
an organising focus, which usually contains a number of thematically or conceptually related units. 
These themes and concepts are explored through tasks. The M-U-T framework enables students 

21 
 
 
to learn in purposeful and authentic situations and facilitates cross-curricular planning, as 
themes/topics can be the focus for connecting knowledge and learning experiences across different 
subjects.  
 
The figure below shows how units and tasks can be developed and organised within the module 
“Study, School Life and Work”, which is one of the modules suggested for students at the senior 
secondary level. 
 
Organisation of Modules, Units and Tasks: An Example 
 
 
 
Module 
Study, School Life and Work 
Unit 
Through Students’ Eyes 
Unit 
Part-time Work? 
Task 1 
Peer 
Counsellors 
Task 2 
The School 
Paper 
Task 3 
English 
Week 
Task 4 
How Do You 
Enjoy School? 
Task 1 
Career 
Week 
Task 2 
Making the 
Right Choice 

22 
 
 
Extended tasks and projects can be further developed from tasks. The figure below shows 
the relationship among Tasks, Extended Tasks and Projects. 
 
Relationship among Tasks, Extended Tasks and Projects 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For suggestions on task-based learning and teaching, see Section 4.2.1. 
 
Organising the thematically or conceptually-related areas of learning into modules helps 
students make better connections in what they learn. For example, a module such as “Nature and 
Environment” at the senior secondary level (see Section 2.5.2) allows students to examine 
different but related areas of knowledge such as environmental protection and resources, energy 
conservation and biodiversity. It engages them in using English to explore and discuss topics in a 
variety of ways, such as acting as a tour guide to introduce a conservation park, writing a pamphlet 
to urge people to re-use, reduce and recycle, or inviting schoolmates to join a “Beach Clean Up 
Campaign”. 
 
The modular approach can also make it easier to link classroom learning to real-life experience. 
For example, events that take place in the local and international communities can be drawn 
upon to develop modules that broaden students’ knowledge of the world as well as develop 
their language proficiency. 
 
Where appropriate, teachers can incorporate and integrate language arts (e.g. drama, poems, songs) 
and non-language arts (e.g. social issues, debating) elements into the theme-based modules to cater 
for the interests, needs and abilities of their particular group of students, as well as to extend and 
enrich their learning experiences. 
 
 
 
 
 
Task 
Task 
Extended 
Task 
Project 

23 
 
 
3.3.2 Developing Learner Independence and Self-directed Learning Skills 
 
To achieve the goal of lifelong learning, students at the senior secondary level should be 
encouraged to progress towards autonomy and independence. Teachers should see the 
development of self-access and self-directed learning (SDL) as an integral part of every student’s 
learning experiences. They should make an effort to integrate classroom and independent learning 
when planning and designing their English programmes. In addition, teachers can make use of e-
learning platforms and application software to help students foster the habit of independent 
learning outside class. In the learning process, teachers can help students: 
 
 
develop enabling, metacognitive and SDL skills; 
 
set goals and make informed choices as to what, when and how they want to learn; 
 
use a range of language development strategies; 
 
carry out self-assessment and self-reflection; 
 
plan, monitor and evaluate the strategies adopted and their own learning effectiveness, which 
forms the basis for goal-setting in subsequent tasks or activities; and 
 
develop the knowledge, skills and strategies, attitudes and perseverance essential for lifelong 
language learning. 
 
3.3.3 Extending Language Learning beyond the Classroom 
 
Language learning should not be confined to the classroom and learning time is not limited to lesson 
time. To maximise opportunities for pleasurable and meaningful language learning, schools can: 
 
 
encourage students to interact in English not only during but also outside class time; 
 
utilise resources to enhance the language environment, so as to provide students with 
enjoyable experiences in the use of English through various types of extra-curricular activities 
(e.g. language games, drama, choral speaking, short radio plays); and 
 
enrich students’ learning experiences in real-life settings and widen their exposure to 
authentic language use through OLE and English-related LWL activities which revolve 
around the Five Essential Learning Experiences, i.e. Moral and Civic Education, Intellectual 
Development, Community Service, Physical and Aesthetic Development and Career-related 
Experiences (e.g. visits, talks, voluntary work, drama performances, job shadowing). 
 
3.3.4 Cross-curricular Planning 
 
The senior secondary English Language curriculum recognises the value and importance of 
adopting a cross-curricular approach to language learning, as set out in Section 1.5. Apart from 
striving to attain the important goal of helping students learn English effectively, a sound and 
robust school-based senior secondary English Language curriculum should also support students 

24 
 
 
in their learning of other subjects. To achieve this, close collaboration among key stakeholders is 
necessary. This involves not only collaboration among teachers of English within a school, but 
also the support from the school head and teachers of other KLAs. Close communication among 
teachers and with the school management in the form of formal or informal meetings, experience-
sharing, professional development days, etc. should be established and maintained in school. 
Sharing of learning resources among teachers should also be encouraged. 
 
To develop cross-curricular modules of learning, teachers of English can: 
 
 
collaborate with teachers of other KLAs to identify students’ language needs in respective 
KLAs (e.g. understanding the text features, mastery of rhetorical functions and language 
items commonly used in academic texts), draw up a plan or a schedule of work to achieve 
specific goals, and then develop the materials and activities to work towards them; 
 
select suitable themes/topics or language skills (e.g. essay writing, graph and chart description) 
as the focus to help students connect the learning in English and other subjects, thereby 
heightening students’ awareness of English commonly used in texts of other subjects and 
facilitating their current and/or further studies; 
 
provide students with opportunities to develop a broad range of generic skills that they can 
apply in other KLAs (e.g. self-learning skills, critical thinking skills); and 
 
reinforce students’ learning by exposing them to a wide variety of texts covering a wide range 
of subjects, and encouraging them to read about and discuss the topics they are working on 
in other KLAs. 
 
When English Language teachers collaborate with teachers of other KLAs to draw up their school 
English Language curriculum plan, they should take the following into consideration: 
 
 
students’ needs, interests and levels; 
 
the broad topics, themes and concepts that students will come across in the study of other 
subjects; and 
 
the genres, text types, language knowledge and skills (e.g. grammatical structures, vocabulary) 
that students will need in order to learn and express themselves effectively in the other KLAs. 
 
The table on the next page presents some examples of the kinds of tasks or activities that students 
should be encouraged to undertake to connect English language learning with other KLAs: 
 
 

25 
 
 
Key Learning Area 
Examples of LaC/RaC Activities 
Chinese Language Education 
 
Compare and discuss the cultural events, literary works, 
lifestyles and values of Chinese and westerners. 
Mathematics Education 
 
Plan surveys, present research findings and prepare 
arguments using statistics. 
Personal, Social and 
Humanities Education 
 
Read and discuss texts that examine issues or topics 
related to healthy lifestyles, customs and traditions, 
conservation and sustainable development, use of 
resources and rights, responsibilities and social values. 
Science Education 
 
Discuss ideas and clarify purposes prior to and in the 
process of investigation; and 
 
Read and research information on science-related topics 
(e.g. energy, the earth, the solar system) or works of 
science fiction. 
Technology Education 
 
Explore and communicate ideas and information about 
the development or impact of modern technology; 
 
Write operating instructions for the gadgets designed in 
the Design and Applied Technology lessons; and 
 
Plan and produce coherent and structured texts related to 
workplace and business communication such as 
proposals, meeting minutes and reports. 
Arts Education 
 
Engage in different forms of creative writing (e.g. poems, 
short stories, play/film scripts) or give a dramatic 
presentation of a short play or a scene from a play; and 
 
Discuss and critique an advertisement, a poster, a film, a 
painting, a sculpture, or a multimedia artwork in a Visual 
Arts lesson. 
Physical Education 
 
Engage in learning tasks or activities that examine the 
pros and cons of various physical activities. 
 
3.3.5 Cross-curricular Learning through Applied Learning 
 
Applied Learning (ApL) is a valued senior secondary elective subject which emphasises the 
importance of linking theory to practice in broad professional and vocational fields. A flexible 
combination of ApL with the study of English Language at senior secondary level helps broaden 
students’ learning experiences. Cross-curricular links and collaboration between ApL and English 
Language can also be strengthened through offering English-related ApL courses, such as Applied 
Learning (Vocational English) and Applied Learning (Translation Studies).  For instance, the 
former helps further develop students’ language skills by providing them with opportunities to 

26 
 
 
understand and produce a variety of texts, both written and spoken (e.g. emails, notices, reports, 
presentations, telephone calls) in work-related contexts. It also complements learning in other 
subjects (e.g. Tourism and Hospitality Studies, Business, Accounting and Financial Studies) as 
these subjects provide relevant contexts for learning and use of workplace English.     
 
3.3.6 Promoting the Creative Use of English through Language Arts 
 
To stretch students’ potential, promote literary appreciation and develop students’ sensitivity to 
language use, more emphasis can be placed on the creative use of English. When designing the 
school-based English Language curriculum, teachers can make use of a broad range of language 
arts materials, such as poems, short stories, films, drama scripts, song lyrics and advertisements, 
to heighten students’ awareness of the language used and effects achieved. 
 
Relevant English learning activities (e.g. choral speaking, drama performance, film appreciation, 
talks or writing workshops conducted by authors) can be arranged to widen students’ language 
exposure and provide opportunities for them to interact with literary/imaginative texts and explore 
the creative use of language. 
 
For more information on promoting the creative use of English through language arts, please refer 
to Section 4.2.4. 
 
3.3.7 Catering for Learner Diversity 
 
All students have ever-improving capabilities to learn and perform to the best of their ability. In 
planning the English Language curriculum, schools should be sensitive to different students’ needs 
and make use of strategies that will enable each student to learn better and fulfil their potential. 
Schools should appropriately adapt the curriculum and use a variety of learning materials, activities 
and instructional/grouping arrangements to suit students’ needs, interests and abilities. 
 
At the school level, schools can adopt a variety of differentiation measures to support students’ 
English learning and address their learning needs, interests and aspirations: 
 
 
offering the elective subject Literature in English and English-related ApL courses [e.g. 
Applied Learning (Vocational English), Applied Learning (Translation Studies)] to enrich 
and complement English learning;  
 
devising short customised pull-out enrichment/remedial programmes (e.g. phonics 
programmes for less advanced students, writing workshops for advanced students) to cater 
for their different needs in English language learning; 
 
organising short school-based programmes/activities (e.g. drama and public speaking classes) 
to provide opportunities for using English; and  

27 
 
 
 
conducting cross-/co-curricular activities (e.g. LaC Week, debating competition) to connect 
learning experiences.   
 
For more information on catering for learner diversity at the classroom level, please refer to Section 
4.3. 
 
3.3.8 Flexible Use of Learning Time 
 
As indicated in Chapter 2 of this Guide, schools can allocate 10.5 to 13% of lesson time to English 
Language at the senior secondary level. They are strongly encouraged to make flexible use of the 
learning time during and outside school hours to facilitate English learning and teaching. 
Confining the learning of English to the classroom may fail to enable students to develop and 
apply knowledge and skills coherently and integratively. Schools can: 
 
 
make timetabling arrangements (e.g. double- or triple-period sessions per week or cycle, half-
day or whole-day activity sessions) to allow continuous stretches of time for learning and 
assessment tasks, including those for the SBA, projects, visits, etc.; 
 
in addition to the regular English Language lessons of which reading is an integral part, set 
aside a short, regular period of time per day for reading to help students develop a habit;  
 
plan timetables and school calendars flexibly (e.g. adjusting the number and arrangement of 
lessons in each term to cater for the special requirements of the learning programmes), and 
explore the use of weekends and long holidays to encourage life-wide learning; 
 
make flexible timetabling arrangements (e.g. creating a common block in the afternoon by 
shortening the morning lessons) to allow differentiation measures to take place; and 
 
allow variations in the allocation of lesson time among students in the same year level based 
on their needs. 
 
3.3.9 Flexible Grouping and Class Organisation 
 
Flexibility in class organisation is an important consideration if the varied learning and teaching 
approaches and strategies that teachers are encouraged to adopt are to achieve their intended effects. 
Depending on their nature and purpose, learning and teaching activities can be carried out in 
groups of varying sizes. For example, to cater for a wide range of students’ needs and abilities, a 
year level of four classes can be split into five or six groups. Where learning levels and needs are 
shared, students from different year levels can be grouped together. Some activities (e.g. 
discussions, projects) work well with smaller groups of students, while other activities (e.g. choral 
speaking, instruction of a general nature) can be conducted in larger groups to maximise the use 
of the resources available. Schools are encouraged to exercise flexibility in regrouping students in 
the same year level to address their diverse needs in English learning. A flexible common block 
can be created to facilitate the regrouping of students according to their different learning choices 

28 
 
 
and needs. In this way, small-class teaching or tailored pull-out programmes can be arranged to 
specifically address the needs of a particular group of students. 
 
3.4 
Managing the Curriculum 
 
To manage the English Language curriculum effectively, school heads/principals, prefects of 
studies, English Language panel chairpersons, English Language teachers, Native-speaking 
English Teachers (NETs) and teacher-librarians need to collaborate. When doing so, they are 
encouraged to remember the importance of: 
 
 
keeping abreast of the developments and innovations in the English Language curriculum, 
and aligning language learning with the school vision and culture and the central curriculum 
framework; 
 
developing a school language policy which clearly defines the scope of learning to cater for 
students’ needs and interests; 
 
encouraging team-building and collaboration among teachers of English and between 
teachers of English and teachers of other KLAs; 
 
creating time for professional development; 
 
promoting flexible deployment and use of resources; and 
 
encouraging assessment for and as learning and using evidence to make informed changes to 
the curriculum. 
 
Depending on the school context, the roles different key players assume may vary from school to 
school. For more information on the key roles they may play, please refer to Section 3.2.6 of the 
English Language Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) 
(2017). 
 
 
 

29 
 
 
Chapter 4  Learning and Teaching 
 
This chapter provides guidelines for effective learning and teaching of the English Language 
curriculum. It is to be read in conjunction with Chapter 4 of the English Language Education Key 
Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) (2017).  
 
4.1 
Guiding Principles 
 
The guiding principles for the learning and teaching of English Language at the senior secondary 
level are set out below: 
 
 
An interactive process of knowledge building and language learning: Language 
learning is a dynamic, interactive process in which students play an active role in using 
language to make sense of the world and the information they encounter, and in recreating 
and expressing meaning in a variety of ways to suit different contexts. Any learning and 
teaching approaches or strategies that teachers adopt or develop should be rooted in this 
understanding, and a diversity of learning contexts and activities should be provided to enable 
students to explore, develop and apply the language. 
 
 
An open and flexible curriculum framework: Schools should make use of the open and 
flexible central English Language Education curriculum framework to plan for a suitable, 
balanced and coherent school-based curriculum, and to develop effective learning, teaching 
and assessment tasks and activities. 
 
 
Setting learning targets and allowing flexibility in learning: To ensure that students learn 
purposefully and therefore with motivation, it is sensible to have agreed specific learning 
targets for them to work towards in and across the Interpersonal, Knowledge and 
Experience Strands. While the design and implementation of the school-based English 
Language curriculum should be geared towards helping students achieve the agreed learning 
targets, there should be sufficient flexibility to accommodate the unpredictable, and to cater 
for individual learning objectives which may emerge in the learning process, as this facilitates 
personally motivated construction of knowledge. 
 
 
Using a wide range of learning and teaching approaches and strategies: Helping 
students achieve the learning targets calls for the effective and flexible use of a wide range of 
approaches and strategies. Depending on the learning context, teachers should design, choose 
and use approaches and strategies that motivate students, enhance their English proficiency, 
personal and intellectual development and cultural understanding, and support the 
development of the generic skills. 
 

30 
 
 
 
Catering for learner diversity: To cater for the varied needs, interests, abilities and 
learning styles of different students, schools are encouraged to adapt the curriculum 
appropriately, select and develop suitable modules of learning, employ a variety of teaching 
methods and strategies and fine-tune them to suit different learning styles and situations. 
 
 
Flexible use of resources: Schools are encouraged to enhance English Language learning, 
arouse interest and broaden learning experiences through flexible use of a variety of resources, 
such as quality textbooks and different types of print and non-print resources. In addition, 
relevant community resources should be tapped to provide students with opportunities for 
life-wide learning. 
 
4.2 
Approaches and Strategies 
 
4.2.1 Task-based Learning and Teaching 
 
Language learning should be experiential and should aim at developing students’ communicative 
competence. The task-based approach to language learning emphasises learning to communicate 
through purposeful interaction. Through the use of tasks, students are provided with purposeful 
contexts and engaged in processes that require them to exercise critical thinking and creativity, 
explore issues and solutions, and learn to use the language skills and functions, grammar items 
and structures, vocabulary, and tone, style and register for meaningful communication. The use 
of tasks also provides opportunities for the development of language learning strategies, generic 
skills, learner independence, and positive values and attitudes conducive to lifelong learning. 
 
When designing tasks, teachers are encouraged to consider and apply what follows. 
 
Tasks and Exercises 
 
Tasks are activities in which students are required to draw together and further develop their 
knowledge and skills. They are characterised by an emphasis on activity, participation and 
communication among participants through a variety of modes and media. Every learning task 
should have the following five features: 
 
 
A task should have a purpose. It involves students in using language for the range of purposes 
described in Sections 2.3 and 2.4. 
 
A task should have a context from which the purpose for using language emerges. 
 
A task should involve students in a mode of thinking and doing. 
 
The purposeful activity in which students engage in carrying out a task should lead towards 
a product. 
 
A task should require students to draw upon their framework of knowledge and skills and 

31 
 
 
should be designed to enable them to strengthen or extend this. 
 
In order to learn successfully, students need a judicious combination of tasks and supporting 
exercises in which they focus upon and practise specific elements of knowledge, skills and 
strategies needed for the task. Exercises do not usually contain the five features of a learning task. 
They are good preparation for the completion of tasks and may focus on particular grammar items 
and structures, vocabulary and text types. They are best carried out in the context of a task, and 
should be sequenced systematically and integrated with each other to support the task. 
 
Student-centred Instruction 
 
Students learn most effectively when teachers treat them and their learning as the focus of 
attention. Student-centred instruction may be provided through: 
 
 
designing learning tasks or activities that cater for students’ age, needs, interests, abilities, 
experiences and learning styles; 
 
engaging students in group work or pair work for genuine communication; 
 
applying suitable questioning techniques to stimulate thinking, encourage experimentation 
and facilitate knowledge construction; and 
 
encouraging students to contribute to the learning process by: 
- 
sharing their views and learning experiences; 
- 
playing an active role in consulting the teacher; and 
- 
negotiating with the teacher on the learning objectives, helping to select learning 
materials, and suggesting appropriate activities. 
 
Integrative and Purposeful Language Use 
 
Most tasks in real-life situations involve the integrative use of language skills and strategies. 
Teachers are strongly encouraged to design learning tasks which make use of theme-based 
materials that cover a variety of text types (e.g. informational, persuasive, imaginative/literary) 
and facilitate the integrative and purposeful use of an extensive range of language knowledge, 
skills and strategies. In the learning process, teachers should: 
 
 
enhance students’ communicative competence through realistic contexts which call for 
natural integrated language use; 
 
encourage students to use English creatively to respond and give expression to real and 
imaginative experience; and  
 
develop students’ critical thinking and problem solving skills, promote the sharing of 
experiences and foster cultural awareness and understanding. 
 

32 
 
 
Learning and Teaching Grammar in Context 
 
Task-based learning facilitates the learning and teaching of grammar in context. Fluency and 
accuracy are complementary, and students need to have a good command of language forms if 
they are to understand and express meanings effectively. 
 
In the task-based approach, grammar-focused practice provides students with the language support 
they need to carry out tasks. Grammar activities can be used at different stages of a task, depending 
on the needs of students. Grammar learning can take place at the: 
 
 
pre-task stage, when particular language items or structures which students will need in 
performing the task are introduced and practised, through the teacher’s direct instruction or 
an inductive and discovery approach, which involves the students detecting, or noticing, and 
working out a “pattern” for themselves; 
 
while-task stage, when grammar activities are provided to address problems or difficulties 
that students may be having with particular language forms, which hamper their completion 
of the learning task; and 
 
post-task stage, when focused practice is provided to consolidate particular grammar items 
or aspects of language which students did not use effectively during the task. 
 
In the task-based approach, grammar is seen as a means to an end and it is not taught as a 
system of rules or a stand-alone body of knowledge. In selecting the language items and structures 
to focus on, teachers should use tasks as a starting point and consider: 
 
 
what language items and support students will need to carry out the tasks effectively; and 
 
ways of helping students master the target structures and items effectively, which may include 
exercises on discrete items and contextualised grammar practice with the necessary language 
input provided for students to perform the task. 
 
For the learning of grammar to be effective, students must be given ample opportunities to apply 
their knowledge of grammar in interaction and communication. Formal explanation of 
grammatical rules in isolation and the use of decontextualised and mechanical drills are not always 
useful in helping students develop communicative competence. Students should be helped to see 
the connection between language forms and communicative functions, and internalise the forms 
through meaningful everyday language use. 
 
Extended Tasks and Projects 
 
Extended tasks or projects are effective means to consolidate and/or stretch students’ learning upon 
completion of a task. 

33 
 
 
Extended tasks provide further opportunities for students to practise various language skills and 
use the language items and structures, vocabulary and text types they have learnt in the unit or 
module. Students of different ability levels can be encouraged to complete the extended tasks at 
their own pace within a certain period of time. Teachers need to design extended tasks that are 
suited to students’ abilities and adjust their expectations according to the competence of individual 
students. 
 
Alternatively, teachers might like to engage students in project work. Projects have various 
advantages as they: 
 
 
provide an effective framework for more extensive language use and language learning: 
Through the process of planning, information search, note-taking, interviewing, data analysis, 
discussion, drafting and re-drafting, editing, presentation and other steps that are often 
involved in project work, students are able to use language skills and language learning 
strategies purposefully, extensively and in an integrated way. 
 
help students develop independence and a sense of responsibility: Projects allow students 
to pursue a topic of interest to themselves, set their own learning targets, and plan and reflect 
on their course of action. Personal involvement of this sort enables students to become more 
responsible for their own learning. 
 
facilitate lifelong and life-wide learning: Projects may encourage students to move out of 
the classroom into the community, allowing them to connect what they learn at school with 
the world at large. Through planning, organising and participating in real-life investigations, 
which involve exploring problems from various perspectives and presenting information in 
various modes, students develop not only language knowledge and skills but also the generic 
skills, positive values and attitudes that are conducive to lifelong development. 
 
Co-ordination across Key Learning Areas (KLAs) may be necessary not only for interdisciplinary 
projects, but also for ensuring that students are given a manageable number of projects at the 
same time. Before assigning project work, teachers need to plan and make appropriate 
arrangements, taking into consideration the theme or topic, the learning targets and objectives, the 
generic skills, values and attitudes, the resources, the amount of time required, the parties involved 
and the products. 
 
For projects to be genuinely student-centred, teachers need to be flexible and open-minded when 
working with students, and provide appropriate support. 
 
4.2.2 Learning and Teaching of the Four Language Skills 
 
Real-life communication seldom involves the use of just one language skill, and so students are 
strongly encouraged to learn and exercise the integrated use of skills for authentic, purposeful 

34 
 
 
communication. However, for the sake of clarity and simplicity, the four language skills – listening, 
speaking, reading and writing – are presented separately in this section. 
 
Listening 
 
To help students develop the various skills required in listening, teachers need to expose them to 
a broad range of listening experiences and to make use of a wide selection of authentic 
listening materials such as advertisements, announcements, telephone conversations, speeches, 
films, poems, songs and rhymes. It is important to draw students’ attention to the use of spoken 
English in their daily lives and encourage them to make use of available resources such as English 
language programmes on TV and the radio, and to build their confidence by providing them with 
learning experiences and activities in which they can be successful. Teachers are encouraged to 
consider the following activities to help students develop listening skills and strategies effectively. 
 
 
Skills of anticipation 
The activities suggested below are mostly conducted at the pre-listening stage to motivate 
students, set the scene and give them clear purposes for the listening tasks. 
- 
Students share knowledge and opinions on the given topic and use them as the basis for 
prediction and comprehension. 
- 
Students are given the title or background information on what they are about to hear 
and they guess what the content of the text is going to be. 
- 
Students listen to a short extract of what they are about to hear and predict what they 
will hear in the main text. 
- 
Students read through questions in advance so that they know what to listen for (focused 
listening). This will train them to select and pay attention to the key points in what they 
hear. 
 
 
Sound processing and sound discrimination 
These activities are related to recognition of words; sentence and clause boundaries; 
contracted forms; stress and intonation patterns and their significance; speech rhythm; 
changes in pitch, tone and speed of delivery; and discrimination between similar speech 
sounds, homonyms, etc. 
- 
Students are given sentences containing minimal pairs of words set in context for 
discrimination practice. 
- 
Students identify the meanings of different stress and intonation patterns and interpret 
the speaker’s intent and the real meaning of the message. For example, a simple sentence 
such as “Ms Smith teaches Geography.” can be spoken with stress on different words to 
indicate that Ms Smith, not someone else, teaches Geography, or that Ms Smith teaches, 
not studies Geography, or that Ms Smith teaches Geography, not another subject. 
  

35 
 
 
 
Understanding instructions and following directions 
- 
Students follow directions given and trace routes or locate specific facilities on maps or 
floor plans. 
- 
Students carry out various tasks based on oral instructions. 
 
 
Understanding the main idea or theme 
- 
Students match descriptions they hear with non-verbal forms such as a picture or 
diagram. 
- 
Students listen to radio or TV news bulletins and identify the main points, paying 
attention to the headlines which are normally given at the beginning of news broadcasts. 
- 
Students write down the most important words or phrases they hear in a passage. 
- 
Students supply a title for a passage they have heard or summarise the main points of 
the passage. 
 
 
Understanding the use of supporting ideas or details 
- 
Students write down details in support of the main ideas. 
- 
Students identify illustrations or examples for each main idea. 
 
 
Processing meaning 
- 
Students organise the materials into meaningful sections as they listen (e.g. making 
notes under different headings as they listen, using a mind map to organise information, 
picking out particular facts, evidence or cause-and-effect relationships). 
- 
Students make use of contextual clues to deduce word meanings or implied meanings. 
 
 
Critical listening 
- 
Students listen to others’ ideas in group discussions and evaluate them in the light of 
their own knowledge, experience and ideas, and make critical judgements.  
 
 
Understanding the speaker’s intent or attitudes 
- 
Students interpret the speaker’s intent or attitudes as well as the underlying meaning of 
what the speaker says by examining: 
 
the language used (e.g. choice of words, use of repetition, use of hyperboles); and 
 
the manner of speech (e.g. choice of intonation and stress, volume, pitch, pace). 
 
Speaking 
 
For effective oral communication, students need to acquire a range of speaking skills and strategies. 
These include: 
 
Accuracy: the skill of using pronunciation (e.g. speech sounds, stress, rhythm, intonation), 
grammar and vocabulary correctly to communicate ideas and express feelings; 

36 
 
 
 
Fluency: the skill of linking what one says together and producing it at a reasonably “normal” 
speed; 
 
Appropriateness: the skill of using the right sort of language (e.g. formal or informal language) 
to suit particular situations; 
 
Cohesion: the skill of producing spoken utterances which “hang together” grammatically; 
 
Coherence: the skill of producing spoken utterances which “hang together” semantically and 
logically; and 
 
Interaction strategies, such as seeking further information, asking for clarification, 
negotiating meaning, and taking turns appropriately at relevant points in an oral interaction. 
 
A wide range of activities should be used to help students develop the ability to present 
information and feelings clearly and coherently, as well as to participate effectively in oral 
interactions. Some activities are suggested as follows: 
 
 
Conveying ideas and information in conversations 
- 
Students look at a painting, listen to a song, read a book or view a film/TV programme 
and share their thoughts and feelings in a group or with the class. 
- 
Students engage in role-plays and carry out various social transactions or informal 
chats. 
 
 
Using correct pronunciation and intonation for different purposes 
- 
Students listen to recordings of speeches or dramatic episodes to identify the use of 
different intonation patterns to convey meaning. They try to imitate the stress, rhythm 
and intonation used, record their own performance for self, peer and teacher feedback 
and make improvements on their accuracy. 
- 
Students make presentations on a topic of their choice or a book they would like to 
introduce to the class, taking note of the use of voice, stress and intonation to 
achieve the desired effect. 
 
 
Using words and expressions appropriate to the context 
- 
Students listen to recorded materials and decide on the degree of formality, and the 
relationship between the speakers, setting, etc. Then they improvise for similar situations. 
- 
Students practise conveying the same information in different roles and contexts, 
paying attention to whether their choice of words and language is at the appropriate level 
of formality. 
 
 
Using strategies in leading or participating in discussions and negotiations 
- 
Students listen to recordings and identify useful expressions that encourage people to 
say more, or identify the use of conversational fillers such as “Really?” and “I see” to 
sustain interaction. They then apply these strategies in discussions or conversations. 

37 
 
 
- 
Students engage in discussions where they use communication and negotiation skills to 
solve problems or reach a consensus. Students can take turns to be the chairperson or 
group leader and ensure that each group member contributes to the discussion. Another 
group of students may play the role of observers and carry out peer assessment by taking 
note of the interaction strategies used by each participant and giving feedback to the 
group on its effectiveness at the end of the discussion. 
 
Reading 
 
Promotion of Reading 
 
Reading is a means to help students seek information, develop thinking skills, enrich knowledge, 
enhance language proficiency and broaden perspectives. Reading should be promoted in schools 
and integrated into regular English Language lessons with the other language skills of listening, 
speaking and writing. It should also be promoted across all KLAs and in the whole-school 
curriculum. Emphasis has to be placed on motivating students and providing them with proper 
guidance and opportunities to enhance their enjoyment, learning capacity and personal growth 
through reading. 
 
Language teachers can help promote a reading culture through designing reading programmes that 
encourage students to read a wide range of text types with different subject content and to share 
their personal responses with peers. Teachers select or develop appropriate learning activities 
based on texts that interest students, so that they will learn to appreciate the value of reading and 
become motivated to make reading a lifelong pleasure. For more information on the resources 
that can be used to promote reading to learn, please refer to Section 6.3.2. 
 
Schools can help students develop the habit of reading by encouraging them to read outside class 
time, such as during morning assembly and recess, and after school. 
 
Students can be encouraged to notice and read the signs, display boards, notices and advertisements 
in their immediate environment. These materials can promote the development of functional 
reading skills and help students relate English Language learning to daily life. 
 
Suggestions for Enhancing Reading Skills and Strategies 
 
To help students become effective readers, the following activities can be adopted: 
 
 
Pre-reading activities 
- 
Creating a purpose for reading 
 
The teacher helps set a clear purpose by asking students to consider a question or 

38 
 
 
problem before they read. Students can then judge which parts of the text to ignore, 
what to skim over and what to attend to in detail. 
 
- 
Building background knowledge 
 
The teacher gives students some information on what they are going to read to build 
their background knowledge. 
 
Students share what they know about the topic. They then compare the points raised 
with those found in the text. 
 
- 
Activating students’ schemas 
To develop and activate students’ schemas, the teacher guides students to: 
 
predict the content of a text from information such as the title, headings, sub-
headings, pictures, table of contents, preface and appendix; and 
 
use semantic maps to categorise ideas and concepts and visually illustrate the 
relationship between ideas and concepts. 
 
 
While-reading activities 
- 
Tackling unfamiliar lexical items and structures 
 
Students use structural information, such as the position of a lexical item, the 
morphology of a word (e.g. affixation) and the various devices used to create 
textual cohesion (e.g. reference, connectives) to decode the meaning of unfamiliar 
words and structures. 
 
Students infer the meaning of unfamiliar words from context. 
 
Students use a dictionary with discretion, deciding which words to look up and 
which ones to bypass. 
 
- 
Scanning 
 
Students look through a text rapidly to search for specific details (e.g. a name, a 
date), looking for clue words or phrases that may indicate the location of the 
information they are seeking, without attempting to deal with the content as a whole. 
 
- 
Skimming 
 
Students examine headings and sub-headings, look at pictures, and locate topic 
sentences to get a general impression of the content and structure of a text. 
 
- 
Prediction 
 
While reading a story of some length, students can, under the teacher’s guidance, 
stop at critical points to make predictions about what may happen next to a certain 
character, or what may happen as a result of a certain turn of events. They can 
explain their predictions briefly by pointing to story clues. 

39 
 
 
- 
Understanding main ideas 
 
Students identify the key phrases or sentences in a text. 
 
Students select from a list the main ideas most relevant to the text they read. 
 
Students summarise orally or in writing the main points of a text. 
 
Students identify cause-and-effect relationships presented in the text. 
 
- 
Identifying supporting ideas or details 
 
Students list the supporting details under each main idea in the text. 
 
Students find one illustration or example for each main idea provided. 
 
Students read strips of paper containing sentences or paraphrases from the text they 
read and put these strips under the categories of “main ideas” or “supporting 
details”. 
 
- 
Recognising the writer’s intent and attitude 
 
Students consider the use of figures of speech, cohesive devices, rhetorical devices 
and contextual clues which help bring out the underlying meaning. 
 
Students discuss with one another the writer’s points of view and attitude towards 
specific events or issues. 
 
- 
Critical reading 
 
Students express opinions on certain ideas developed in the reading text. They then 
invite comments from peers. 
 
Students initiate and formulate questions. They then discuss the questions among 
themselves, with the teacher giving feedback on their interpretations. 
 
 
Post-reading activities 
- 
Students record personal responses to the reading text(s) in a reading journal. 
- 
Students hold discussions on issues raised in the reading text(s). 
- 
Students do further reading on the topic(s) or issue(s) discussed in the reading text(s). 
 
Writing 
 
In the English Language curriculum, a process approach to writing is recommended. This approach 
focuses on students exploring and being aware of what they do, and the choices they make, 
during writing. The following are some suggested strategies and activities which teachers can use 
to develop students’ skills at the various stages of the writing process, which include pre-writing, 
drafting and revising. Teachers should be aware that the process writing approach is not a 
mechanical sequencing of techniques and that they do not need to use the suggested activities in 
the order presented below. To handle time constraints, teachers may identify a focus in each process 
writing task, selecting a specific part of the writing or an aspect of the writing process (e.g. idea 

40 
 
 
generation, planning, drafting or revising) to work on each time to facilitate more focused learning 
and teaching and avoid excessive rewriting and remarking of the whole piece time and again. 
Students should be encouraged to apply the whole process progressively to review and improve 
longer pieces of writing over successive drafts when they have mastered more strategies along the 
way. 
 
 
Pre-writing 
In the pre-writing stage, students are mainly involved in generating and planning ideas. 
- 
Idea generation helps students get started. Students may do the following to develop 
the skill of idea generation: 
 
brainstorm in small groups; 
 
practise free writing by writing as quickly as possible; 
 
make use of questions to stimulate thinking and develop ideas; 
 
interview one another to collect information and ideas; and 
 
read or listen to texts on the topic and use the ideas obtained to think of new ideas. 
- 
Planning involves consideration of the purpose, audience and overall structure of a 
piece of writing. To develop the skills in identifying writing purposes and audience, 
students may:  
 
examine sample texts to consider the writer’s purposes and the intended audience; 
 
examine how a single event or issue has been reported from a variety of angles; 
 
consider an event or a situation from the various points of view presented in the 
text; 
 
rewrite an argumentative text from the perspective of the opposing viewpoint; and 
 
assess whether a thesis needs refining, and write a brief and flexible outline which 
can be reshaped as they discover new ideas. 
 
 
Drafting 
When writing the first draft, students should focus on content and meaning and leave matters 
like grammar, punctuation and spelling until later. Teachers should prepare students for this 
stage of writing by developing their skills in the following areas: 
- 
Beginning and ending 
 
Students examine and discuss the characteristics of the beginnings and endings of 
different text types in terms of the level of interest they generate, the form they take, 
their relationships to other parts of the text and their relationships to each other. 
They then apply this knowledge to evaluate the opening and ending of their own 
drafts. 
 
Students compare examples of effective and less effective beginnings and endings 
of texts and discuss what makes some beginnings and endings more effective than 
others. 
 
Students match the beginnings and endings of texts to see the ways in which the 

41 
 
 
endings reflect and relate to the openings. 
 
Students write a beginning and an ending to suit the body of a given text. 
- 
Developing and structuring content 
 
Students engage in reading tasks, which will allow them to develop their thinking, 
build vocabulary, develop insights into the structures of various text types and 
appreciate what makes an effective piece of writing in terms of cohesion within 
and across sentences, coherence in the logic of the writing and the overall 
organisation of the text. 
 
Students work on cohesion exercises focusing on one or more aspects of written 
discourse in order to enhance their power of structuring writing before engaging in 
freer writing activities. 
 
Students practise writing a broad range of text types, so as to deepen their 
understanding and experience of the use of different methods of organisation in 
different types of discourse. 
 
 
Revising 
- 
When revising, students review and make changes to their draft at the text level (e.g. 
content, cohesion, coherence, organisation) and check the surface aspects of the text (e.g. 
grammar, spelling) to make sure that the text is suitable for presentation to the reader. 
- 
The revising process can be supported by the following activities: 
 
Peer and self-review 
Students work interactively in pairs or small groups to review each other’s draft 
through questions, suggestions or comments, with the help of a feedback sheet like 
the one below to guide them through the review process, if necessary. Alternatively, 
students can be encouraged to respond critically to their own work by practising 
self-feedback, using the same feedback sheet. 
Feedback Sheet 
(1 = needs improvement, 2 = satisfactory, 3 = well done) 1 
2 
3 
Content 
 
 
 
Is the content clear? 
 
 
 
Is the content relevant? 
 
 
 
Organisation 
 
 
 
Are the ideas put in paragraphs? 
 
 
 
Are the ideas presented in a logical way? 
 
 
 
Language use 
 
 
 
Are the grammatical structures appropriately used? 
 
 
 
Is the choice of words suitable? 
 
 
 
Additional comments: 
 

42 
 
 
 
Teacher-student conferencing 
The teacher conducts a conference with students individually or in small groups to 
discuss their drafts. Students can participate actively in negotiating and clarifying 
meaning before proceeding to revise their work. 
 
- 
Teachers should give written comments on the drafts they have collected from 
students. When giving comments, teachers should offer positive support by praising 
what students have done well in their drafts. They should make suggestions which will 
enable students to carry out revisions in the areas of organisation, grammar and 
mechanics. 
 
4.2.3 Promoting the Academic Use of English 
 
English is one of the major mediums of instruction in different senior secondary subjects and 
university courses. It is therefore crucial to promote the academic use of English to heighten 
students’ awareness of English commonly used in academic texts they read and/or write in other 
subjects, facilitating their current and/or further studies. English teachers can take the lead to raise 
students’ awareness of the style and features of academic texts by selecting appropriate texts and 
designing relevant learning activities. 
 
Common Features of Academic Texts 
 
Academic texts refer to texts that students read and/or produce when studying subjects of other 
KLAs (e.g. Science Education, Mathematics Education, Personal, Social and Humanities 
Education). The purpose of an academic text is usually to explain an idea or concept with 
data/statistics, to discuss an issue with evidence or to argue and justify a point. Academic texts are 
generally formal, objective, precise and technical (with subject-specific terms).  
 
Ways to Promote the Academic Use of English 
 
Academic English can be best promoted through Language across the Curriculum (LaC) and 
Reading across the Curriculum (RaC). LaC and RaC activities help students establish meaningful 
links across learning experiences acquired in different KLAs while consolidating their language 
skills developed in the English Language subject. Depending on school contexts, the 
implementation of LaC/RaC at the senior secondary level may require the collaboration between 
English and other subject teachers, or the English teachers taking the lead (in schools with most 
senior secondary subjects taught in Chinese). Teachers can conduct LaC/RaC activities in the 
English Language classroom as well as incorporate them into co-curricular/life-wide learning 
activities (e.g. STEM activities, visits to museums). 
 

43 
 
 
To help students explore the academic use of English Language, teachers can: 
 
make an informed decision between LaC and RaC based on students’ needs (e.g. the medium 
of instruction adopted in other subjects). Schools with most senior secondary subjects taught 
in Chinese may start with RaC;  
 
collaborate with teachers of other subjects, identify suitable topics in the respective curricula 
and select appropriate texts for students to read;  
 
highlight salient features (e.g. text structures, rhetorical functions and language items) 
common in academic texts to draw students’ attention to how they are used and the effects/ 
purposes achieved. Below are some examples. 
- 
To make academic texts more formal, contractions, informal and colloquial expressions 
are avoided while formal vocabulary (e.g. “injection/vaccination” instead of “jab”) is 
used to present information. 
- 
To create a more objective tone, judgements are supported by reasons and findings in 
academic texts and opinions are presented with the use of the passive voice. 
- 
Specific and concrete words are used (e.g. “teenagers” instead of “young people”, “in 
2018” instead of “a few years ago”) to avoid ambiguity. 
- 
Subject-specific terminologies are used to describe a process, classify an object or living 
thing, etc. (e.g. “deforestation”, “mammal”). Some common words have a special 
meaning in academic contexts (e.g. “class” and “family” in Biology”, “mean” in 
Mathematics). The ability to understand and use subject-specific terminologies is 
essential for comprehending and producing academic texts. 
 
explicitly teach reading skills and strategies to help students comprehend and unpack the 
texts they would read in other subjects/KLAs; and 
 
design meaningful tasks to connect reading and writing to provide opportunities for students 
to apply language (e.g. text structures, rhetorical functions and language items in academic 
texts) and content knowledge (e.g. concepts and ideas related to non-language subjects) learnt.  
 
For more information on cross-curricular collaboration, including some suggestions on LaC and 
RaC activities, please refer to Section 3.3.4. 
 
4.2.4 Promoting the Creative Use of English 
 
The promotion of the creative use of English helps enrich language learning experiences and it can 
be achieved through the effective use of language arts. In fact, language arts has much to offer in 
developing students’ capability to appreciate language use, and respond and give expression to 
real and imaginative experience. Students’ language sensitivity and cultural awareness, as well as 
creative and critical thinking, can be developed with the use of imaginative texts such as poems, 
novels, short stories, dramas, films, film scripts, advertisements, song lyrics, and radio and 
television programmes. To help students progress towards the targets and objectives of the 
Experience Strand, teachers are encouraged to use a wide range of language arts materials in the 

44 
 
 
learning and teaching of English and design thought-provoking activities that encourage students 
to explore and experiment with the creative use of the language. 
 
Reasons for Using Language Arts Materials in the English Language Curriculum 
 
Language Enrichment 
 
 
Imaginative texts help sharpen students’ awareness of the range of language itself. They offer 
genuine examples of a range of styles, registers and text types at different levels of difficulty. 
They are enriched with figurative language or literary devices (e.g. imagery, similes and 
metaphors, personification, hyperbole) which often present familiar experiences in a new 
light, encouraging students to consider the nature of the experience and the potential of the 
language itself. Students are encouraged to be creative and adventurous as they begin to 
appreciate the richness and variety of the language. 
 
Imaginative texts are by nature open to multiple interpretations. Readers’ interpretations of 
and reactions to a given text are rarely identical. This difference in points of view allows for 
genuine interaction among students. 
 
Imaginative texts often deal with issues of universal significance (e.g. human relationships, 
nature, love, growing up), which can be a powerful source of motivation for students to give 
personal responses from their own experience. 
 
The interest and appeal of imaginative texts make them a key resource for stimulating 
language activities. Students have to engage interactively with the text, with fellow students 
and the teacher. In the process, students pay careful attention to the text itself and generate 
language as they complete tasks. 
 
Cultural Enrichment 
 
 
One of the overall aims of the senior secondary English Language curriculum is to enhance 
students’ cultural knowledge and understanding. To achieve effective communication, in 
addition to language knowledge and skills, students need to have the necessary cultural 
information to perceive the shades of meaning and allusions in the words and expressions 
used by speakers of English from different cultures. To foster cultural literacy, students need 
to read widely. When used appropriately, language arts materials are a powerful means to this 
end. 
 
Personal Involvement 
 
 
Imaginative texts allow for personal involvement. More diffuse than informational discourse, 
they stimulate students to engage in a vigorous process of interactive reading. The focus of 
students’ attention is often shifted from the more mechanical aspects of the target language 

45 
 
 
system to the emotional experience represented in the text. 
 
Considerations for Selecting Language Arts Materials 
 
The suitability of language arts materials for the language classroom varies from one group of 
students to another, depending on their age, needs, interests, cultural background, language level, 
and intellectual and emotional maturity. It is most important to make use of materials which 
stimulate their personal imagination and involvement. The following should be considered when 
selecting language arts materials to be used in class: 
 
 
appropriateness of content 
 
interest to the reader 
 
amount of cultural knowledge required 
 
density, pace, level and clarity of language 
 
how the materials are related to the learning objectives, themes of the learning units or 
students’ learning in other areas 
 
In selecting films and documentaries, the following also need to be considered: 
 
 
degree of visual support 
 
clarity of sound and picture 
 
the techniques employed in the film/documentary 
 
Students can be involved in the selection process. In some cases, a class’s suggestions may turn 
the teacher’s attention to materials with excellent potential of which he or she was personally 
unaware. 
 
Planning and Designing Activities Using Language Arts Materials 
 
The following are some suggestions for planning and designing activities that may be used with 
imaginative texts: 
 
 
The reading of an imaginative text is often just one key element in a linked set of activities 
within a unit. These activities may include a preliminary discussion, interactive work 
involving the text, and follow-up activities such as speaking or writing. 
 
Group and shared activities allow the teacher and the participants to tap the knowledge and 
experience within the group. With its variety of life experiences, a group can foster the 
development of an individual’s awareness of both his/her own responses and of the world 
represented in the text. Students working in groups are encouraged to take risks in reading 
and exploring the text together, sharing experiences, views and interpretations. 

46 
 
 
 
Questions can be designed and organised in such a way that they lead students to work either 
individually or through group discussion to achieve a better understanding of the text. 
Students can benefit from answering both closed questions aimed at eliciting information-
based responses and open questions encouraging investigation and reasoned interpretation. 
 
In addition to the conventional “text and questions” approach, teachers should employ a broad 
range of activities to suit students’ interests, level and needs (e.g. role-play, solo/choral 
speaking, drama, improvisation, creative writing, audio/video production, jigsaw reading, 
parallel reading of a text with another text or other media). However, it should be stressed 
that the variety of activities should aim at increasing students’ confidence to develop and 
express their own responses. As their critical faculties are sharpened, they will become keener 
to articulate their own views and assess other perspectives. They are also more likely to 
engage in creative writing and/or extended reading at home. 
 
Suggested Activities for Using Language Arts Materials 
 
The following is a list of activities that may be used with imaginative texts. It is meant to be 
suggestive rather than exhaustive, and teachers should feel free to make changes and/or use their 
own ideas. 
 
 
Preliminary activities 
- 
poster presentations on the theme/subject of the text 
- 
discussion of photos/pictures related to the text 
- 
predicting what the text is about by reading its title 
- 
personal reactions to the theme(s) which occur in the text 
- 
discussion about how students would have responded if they had been in a similar 
situation to the one in the text 
- 
brainstorming vocabulary conducive to understanding the text 
 
 
Activities focusing on the text 
- 
jigsaw reading, i.e. getting students to read different parts of the text and then getting 
them to put it all together 
- 
choosing a description which best summarises the text 
- 
completing sentences which show “cause-and-effect” relationships in the text 
- 
matching definitions with words in the text 
- 
organising words according to lexical relationships 
- 
gap-filling, i.e. certain words are removed from the text, and students fill in the gaps 
either by themselves or by choosing from a word list 
- 
choosing from a list of adjectives the one which best describes a certain character, and 
supplying reasons 
- 
reading/listening to an extract, and writing and/or presenting the dialogue between the 

47 
 
 
characters 
- 
answering comprehension questions about certain words or phrases, the content of the 
text and its underlying meaning 
- 
discussing the language used in the text (e.g. selecting the most beautiful line/best-
written part, explaining the craft/techniques used and the effects created) 
- 
considering the same text presented in another form 
- 
reading aloud the text with feelings and an appropriate tone 
 
 
Follow-up activities 
- 
discussion/debate on the theme/subject of the text 
- 
writing creatively on the theme/subject of the text 
- 
role-play/simulation 
- 
rewriting the text as a different text type (e.g. turning a story into a film script) 
- 
writing diary entries or a letter reflecting on the events of the story from the point of 
view of the reader or one of the characters 
 
Suggested Activities for Using Films and Documentaries 
 
Using non-print materials such as films and documentaries to increase students’ motivation and 
promote language learning has become increasingly popular in the English Language classroom. 
The use of these materials is further promoted through the reading/viewing programme tied in with 
the public examination. To enable students to make the most of these materials, teachers should 
help them cultivate a habit of watching films/documentaries, and develop skills and strategies 
conducive to independent viewing. 
 
To enhance students’ learning effectiveness through film/documentary viewing, the teacher 
should encourage students to practise the following regularly: 
 
selecting films/documentaries for viewing based on criteria such as their interest in and 
familiarity with the subject and the appropriateness of the content; 
 
working together with peers who are interested in viewing the same film/documentary 
whenever possible, for mutual support and for sharing of ideas or opinions; 
 
keeping a logbook in which they note down their personal responses and reflections on the 
different aspects of the film/documentary; and 
 
making the best use of the resources and support available (e.g. the Internet, the library, 
teachers, parents, peers) to improve their understanding of the film/documentary. 
 
Some suggested pre-viewing, after-viewing and extension activities are provided below. They aim 
to develop students’ ability to plan and prepare for, make sense of, reflect on and respond to the 
viewing. They also provide students with opportunities to practise research skills, communication 
skills, presentation skills and creativity, and to reinforce their learning in other parts of the 

48 
 
 
English Language curriculum. 
 
Teachers should give students appropriate help and guidance on how to choose and use the 
activities. They may also consider encouraging students to make judicious use of English subtitles 
to follow dialogues/commentaries, learn vocabulary and understand context-bound expressions. 
(The teacher should, however, remind students that subtitles tend to focus them on reading rather 
than listening, and that they should not overlook the importance of developing listening strategies 
during the viewing process.) 
 
Before the Viewing 
 
 
Students consider the title and the information in the product cover or promotional materials 
and make predictions about the development of the film/documentary. 
 
Students brainstorm what they know about the film/documentary. They may compile a list of 
facts (e.g. the setting and background) or write a short paragraph on their initial views and 
feelings. 
 
Students engage in pre-viewing activities that help them find out more about the 
film/documentary. They may search for information in the library, or they may browse the 
Internet where they can visit the official website or read reviews of the film or locate and visit 
useful websites for ideas about the documentary. 
 
Students make a list of useful words and expressions they have learnt during the information 
search. They may also discuss with each other and write down a few questions about what 
they would like to learn from the film/documentary. 
 
After the Viewing 
 
 
Students engage in pair work or group discussion to explore and give their personal response 
to some of the following: 
- 
the main theme/purpose of the film/documentary 
- 
general feelings about the film/documentary (e.g. interesting, boring, horrifying, 
amusing) 
- 
the most interesting scene(s)/information/point(s) 
- 
the most interesting character(s) 
- 
the relationship between the film/documentary and their personal experience or their 
own situation 
- 
new words/expressions/language structures learnt 
- 
the most striking or interesting image(s)/picture(s) 
- 
the mood/tone of the film/documentary* 
- 
the paralinguistic features (e.g. facial expressions, gestures) used to convey meaning and 
to draw attention* 

49 
 
 
- 
the technical and visual effects (e.g. colour, lighting, camera, setting, costume, make-up, 
props) used to convey meaning and create stylistic effects* 
- 
further questions/new ideas raised* 
 
Students record their reflections on some of the above points in their logbooks. 
 
Students present their reflections and respond to questions raised by peers and the teacher. 
 
* Note: These activities are more demanding and may be better suited to the more advanced students. 
 
Further Work 
 
The following activities are indicative of the kind of language extension work that students are 
encouraged to engage in. Teachers may select or re-develop some of these activities, taking 
into account students’ interests and abilities and how the activities tie in with the school’s 
other English-related work (e.g. debating, drama, campus radio, newsletter). 
 
 
Students write a diary entry about a chosen incident, from the point of view of one of the 
characters in the film, or the narrator or an individual in the documentary. 
 
Students engage in some of the following speaking activities: 
- 
discussion on issues raised in the film/documentary 
- 
prepared talks on a topic related to the film/documentary 
- 
debates in which they prepare arguments in favour of or against propositions developed 
from the film/documentary 
 
Students choose a character from the film, or the narrator, or an individual from the 
documentary and work out what they would like to say to him/her in a letter, an email, or a 
telephone conversation. 
 
Students write a short review for the school newspaper giving their opinion on the 
film/documentary. They rate the film/documentary on a five-point scale. 
 
Students write an alternative ending, a possible sequel, or an imaginary dialogue based on the 
film/documentary. 
 
4.2.5 Providing Timely Support in the Learning and Teaching Process 
 
Quality interaction in the learning and teaching process is essential to ensure effective learning. 
The following example, which focuses on the use of a short imaginative text to develop reading 
skills, illustrates how such a dynamic process can be brought about in the English Language 
classroom: 
 
 

50 
 
 
Scaffolding 
 
Before students approach the text, the teacher should provide scaffolds or means of support to 
assist comprehension. For example, he/she may help build students’ vocabulary by explaining, or 
asking them to look up key words or phrases that are crucial to understanding the text. This 
can also be achieved through asking students to use contextual clues to work out the meaning of 
key words. Further, the teacher may help increase students’ world knowledge by encouraging 
them to find information about a certain topic, issue, historical event or cultural practice that is 
related to the central theme or event presented in the text. Likewise, prompting students to reflect 
on their own experience and to project themselves into a situation similar to the one in the 
text is a good way to ensure that students approach it with the right mental set. 
 
Questioning 
 
To foster a close interaction with the text and develop higher-order thinking skills, open-ended 
questioning is strongly encouraged. Whether they are involved in a group discussion or are 
working on a reading comprehension worksheet, students should not be engaged only with 
questions which aim at eliciting information-based responses. They should also be provided with 
questions that stimulate probing investigation and reasoned interpretation. For example, they 
might be asked to discuss the motive of a certain character, who has opted for a particular course 
of action, and give justifications for their interpretation. Engaging students in this inquiry mode of 
learning will enable them to explore their own feelings, develop their own responses and make 
their own judgements – crucial skills which they can apply to the understanding and appreciation 
of a wider range of imaginative texts. 
 
Feedback 
 
Constructive feedback or advice should be provided during and/or after each learning activity to 
let students know how well they have done and how they can make further improvement. For 
example, students could be asked to rewrite the ending of the imaginative text which they have 
read, and the teacher may provide comments on their drafts in terms of content, organisation and 
language, based on which students will make revisions to produce texts of better quality. Of course, 
the teacher need not be the sole source of quality feedback, which can also come through students’ 
direct involvement in assessing their own and others’ work. Peer and self-feedback, based on 
clear criteria, enhance audience awareness and encourage a critical response to texts. 
 
4.2.6 Adopting e-Learning in the English Language Classroom 
 
e-Learning refers to an open and flexible learning mode involving the use of the electronic media, 
including the use of digital resources and communication tools to achieve the learning objectives. 

51 
 
 
In the context of the English Language, e-learning not only fosters purposeful communication and 
interaction among students and between students and teachers, but also contributes to effective 
learning and teaching. 
 
Effective use of information technology (IT) allows for greater flexibility with respect to 
when and where to learn and who to learn with. It can support both classroom and self-directed 
learning. The use of interactive learning tools to complement direct face-to-face contact not only 
provides students with powerful mechanisms for communication and collaboration with the 
teacher and each other, but also promotes better understanding of their learning progress. For 
example, teachers can: 
 
 
present the lesson in a motivating and engaging way by making use of multimedia 
presentation tools; 
 
provide opportunities for students to take charge of their own learning through selective use 
of online resources; 
 
encourage students to become active users of English when they apply their IT skills to seek, 
share and use information and resources for learning as well as to interact with teachers, other 
students and people around the world; 
 
engage students in interactive and collaborative work through online discussions and sharing 
of ideas; 
 
enhance students’ learning motivation and strengthen class interaction both within and 
beyond the classroom with the use of a range of e-resources, e-learning tools and e-platforms; 
 
make effective use of learning time, cater for students’ diverse needs and promote self-
directed learning with the “Flipped Classroom” strategy; and 
 
use e-assessment that facilitates the understanding of students’ learning progress, the 
provision of feedback and the implementation of assessment for learning or assessment as 
learning.  
 
4.2.7 Promoting Self-directed Learning 
 
Learning is most effective when students play an active role in the learning process and take charge 
of their own learning. At the senior secondary level, students should be encouraged to exercise 
more control over their own learning. Self-directed learning (SDL) should therefore be promoted 
in the English Language curriculum. 
 
Self-directed learners are able to take the initiative and responsibility for learning with or without 
the assistance of others. They would identify their learning needs, formulate goals, and choose 
resources and strategies for learning. SDL may be interpreted as self-regulated learning, self-
learning or independent learning in other contexts, evidenced in students’ sense of control and 
metacognitive skills. 

52 
 
 
To help students become self-directed learners, teachers can demonstrate how to monitor the 
learning process and provide opportunities for them to develop metacognitive strategies. In the 
learning process, teachers can help students: 
 
 
learn how to learn; 
 
make choices as to what, when and how they want to learn; 
 
use a range of language development strategies; 
 
carry out self-assessment and reflection; 
 
plan, monitor and evaluate the strategies adopted and their own learning effectiveness, which 
forms the basis for goal-setting in subsequent tasks or activities; and 
 
develop the essential knowledge, skills, strategies and attitudes to foster lifelong language 
learning. 
 
Students can be engaged in extended English learning tasks and projects on an individual or group 
basis and self-/peer assessment to develop their capabilities to become independent and self-
directed learners. They should be encouraged to see self-assessment as an ongoing process which 
enables them to identify their strengths and weaknesses, develop a critical awareness of their 
language learning progress and establish goals for future development. They should be exposed to 
various types of texts with different levels of complexity across different subjects and disciplines 
to broaden their knowledge base and enrich their reading experiences, thereby providing a firm 
foundation for self-directed and lifelong learning. 
 
IT is an effective tool to facilitate SDL. The prevalence of online learning opportunities and easy 
access to the Internet allow students to assume greater responsibility in their own learning. 
Equipping senior secondary students with the necessary IT skills for SDL also helps prepare them 
for the challenges in the rapidly changing digital world. Therefore, schools should leverage 
technology to help students plan for, monitor and evaluate their own learning. The success of 
promoting SDL hinges largely on teachers’ instructional practice and guidance in the use of 
technology-enhanced learning and teaching resources. To achieve this, teachers are encouraged to: 
 
 
advise students to make use of e-platforms for quick and easy access to information and 
learning resources within and outside the school campus; 
 
enhance students’ motivation in language learning by identifying suitable e-resources to cater 
for their interests, abilities, learning pace and styles; 
 
develop students’ language learning strategies by encouraging them to use different e-
learning tools (e.g. online dictionaries, concordancers, search engines) and features of various 
e-resources (e.g. interactive features of e-books/webpages) to facilitate their understanding of 
some abstract concepts and complex ideas; 
 
develop students’ information literacy skills and guide them to think critically and evaluate 
the data or information on the Internet, which helps them use information effectively and 

53 
 
 
ethically; 
 
develop students’ metacognitive skills (e.g. knowledge management skills), which are 
essential for future studies or work and lifelong learning, by allowing them to take charge of 
their own learning (e.g. setting learning goals, monitoring learning progress, conducting self-
reflection) with the use of e-learning tools and e-resources; and 
 
foster students’ interaction and mutual support as well as encourage peer learning and 
feedback by engaging them in collaborative work through the use of e-platforms. 
 
4.2.8 Meaningful Assignments  
 
Effective use of assignments can enhance and strengthen classroom learning and teaching. Besides 
furthering the development of knowledge, skills and attitudes, assignments help foster students’ 
ability and self-discipline to work independently. Successful completion of assignments 
develops students’ interest and confidence in the subject. The feedback teachers give on students’ 
assignments helps students understand their own progress, identify areas for improvement and 
reflect on their own learning. For teachers, assignments provide a means of monitoring teaching 
effectiveness and students’ progress. Students’ performance in their assignments enables the 
teacher to reflect on his/her teaching so that suitable adjustments and reinforcement can be made. 
 
Setting Assignments 
 
The following are suggested guidelines for teachers when setting assignments: 
 
 
They should be set with reference to the learning targets and objectives, involving a well-
balanced coverage of knowledge and skills. 
 
They should be varied in type and format – in written or spoken mode, on a group or 
individual basis, for daily or vacation practice. 
 
They should encompass an appropriate mix of language forms and functions, involving both 
practice and use, since mastery of basic structures and their application for communicative 
purposes are two interlocking elements in language learning. 
 
They should be set according to students’ abilities, knowledge, experience, needs and 
interests as well as the availability of resources (including time, information and materials). 
Assignments that are too simple, too complex or too time-consuming can cause boredom, 
frustration, failure and even resentment. 
 
They should provide students with ample opportunities to practise the four language skills as 
well as the generic skills. Tasks are effective assignments as they involve the use of language 
items and skills in an integrated manner. Projects are particularly useful for recapitulation, 
generalisation and extension of what students have learnt. 
 
They should be graded carefully from the easier to the more difficult to give students a sense 
of progress and achievement. 

54 
 
 
 
Students should be given sufficient time to draft and revise their work before submission. 
Rushing students through the process deprives them of the opportunity to experiment with 
language use and to develop skills and knowledge. 
 
IT can be appropriately used to add variety and motivate students. They can be asked to 
enliven their work by adding digital images, videos, sounds and music. Teachers can also 
provide feedback, invite their comments and generate discussion on e-platforms.  
 
There are no hard-and-fast rules about the frequency and number of assignments that should be 
given to each class level. Teachers are expected to exercise their professional judgement when 
setting assignments. The following are some guidelines which teachers may want to follow: 
 
 
Consider students’ learning needs as reflected by their performance in class, class work and 
previous assignments. 
 
Aim at short but frequent assignments rather than lengthy ones. 
 
Check against the number and scale of assignments given by teachers of other subjects. In 
consultation with the teaching staff, the school management can work out a policy that aims 
at maximising the benefits of assignments and minimising the pressure on students. 
 
Providing Guidance 
 
In order that assignments would not become a burden for students and that they can be completed 
independently, it is important for teachers to provide sufficient guidance, explanation, information 
and materials beforehand. 
 
The guidance provided can take the following forms: 
 
 
spelling out the objectives and requirements; 
 
explaining difficult vocabulary or expressions to bridge gaps in comprehension; 
 
giving examples to illustrate what students are expected to do when the format is unfamiliar 
and when the instructions involved are complicated; 
 
ensuring opportunities for oral preparation, for example, through brainstorming and class 
discussion; and 
 
providing students with adequate guidance for them to accomplish the work on their own. 
 
Marking Assignments 
 
There is no one best way of marking English assignments. Effective marking should be meaningful, 
manageable and motivating. Different types of work call for different treatments. For example, 
when assessing an oral presentation, the emphasis can be put primarily on content and fluency. 
When going through book reports, the focus can be upon students’ ideas and personal responses. 

55 
 
 
When marking compositions, the emphasis can be placed on content, accuracy, appropriateness, 
style and/or organisation. Depending on the pedagogical purposes and assessment objectives, 
teachers may select area(s) to focus on when providing feedback to students on different writing 
tasks. However, efforts should be made to ensure a comprehensive coverage of all aspects over 
time for balanced and progressive development of students’ writing skills. 
 
Teachers might like to take note of the following points when marking assignments: 
 
Informative feedback should be provided rather than just a mark or grade. In addition to 
identifying areas where improvement should be made, teachers can write constructive and 
encouraging comments, as these motivate students to do well. 
 
Consistency in marking ensures fairness in assessment. Teachers are encouraged to work out 
and abide by standardised scoring guides to provide reliable information on students’ 
performance and progress. 
 
Recording 
 
Teachers should keep records of students’ assignments. These records enable them to find out how 
well students are progressing towards the learning targets. Based on such information, teachers 
can evaluate the effectiveness of their teaching and make adjustments accordingly. Meetings can 
be arranged with students from time to time so that teachers can discuss their performance in 
assignments with them. In this way, teachers know how much more help they should give students 
and in what way. 
 
Students can also be trained to keep records of their own work. They should get into the habit of 
writing dates on their assignments and keeping them in a chronological order. This enables them 
to go back to their previous work and review the progress they have made. Proper and systematic 
management of work can help students develop self-confidence and a positive attitude towards 
learning English. 
 
Teachers may ask students to keep portfolios containing the materials that they have produced in 
the course of their learning. A portfolio is a purposeful collection of a student’s work over a period 
of time, which can provide a comprehensive picture of the student’s achievements, progress, 
strengths and weaknesses. Portfolios are becoming increasingly popular as a means of formative 
assessment. 
 
4.3 
Catering for Learner Diversity in the English Language Classroom 
 
Every class is composed of individuals who are different from each other in terms of maturity, 
motivation, ability, learning styles, aspirations and interests. Catering for learner diversity is a 
significant consideration in determining learning and teaching content, level and methods. 

56 
 
 
Schools are encouraged to exercise flexibility in timetabling and grouping of students, and 
introduce differentiation measures and school-based programmes to support students’ English 
learning needs. For more information on differentiation measures to cater for learner diversity at 
the school and subject levels, please refer to Section 3.3.7. 
To enhance curriculum planning as well as learning and teaching in a way that will help different 
students learn well, teachers are encouraged to consider the following: 
 
 
Be sensitive to the needs of different students and appreciate their capacity to learn and 
improve. 
 
Make use of materials and activities which 
- 
will arouse different students’ interest; 
- 
are relevant to students’ ability level; and 
- 
facilitate the formation of views and solutions to problems that promote conceptual 
development. 
 
Create situations and select suitable questioning strategies that will provoke thinking as well 
as encourage creativity and experimentation with regard to language use. 
 
Respond to and help students who need extra help and those who are ready to take on greater 
challenges. 
 
Curriculum Adaptation 
 
Teachers can suit the specific needs, interests, abilities and learning styles of varied groups of 
students by trimming learning content and materials, making additions or a combination of both. 
Teachers need to employ their subject knowledge, professional skills and understanding of the 
students to select and use appropriate methods to help students work towards the learning targets 
and objectives. It is a good practice for teachers teaching the same year level to meet and decide 
on how the English Language curriculum may be adjusted for a particular class or group of students. 
Expansion or reduction of the learning content should be done carefully and should not adversely 
affect students’ progress towards the learning targets and objectives at the senior secondary level. 
Adaptation may enable students to learn at the level and pace that suit them best. A clear 
record of how the English Language curriculum has been adapted in a particular year must be 
passed on to the teachers in the following years so that they know the needs of the students, and 
so that continuity in the school curriculum can be achieved. 
 
Learning Tasks and Exercises 
 
The learning targets describe the intended learning goals for all students, but the means by which 
they work towards the common learning targets may differ in a range of ways. The following 
examples show how different ways of using tasks and exercises can cater for learner diversity: 
 

57 
 
 
 
The same task or exercise is provided to all students in the class but the output required and/or 
the amount and form of support given vary. 
 
Further support is provided to the less advanced students by, for example, 
- 
giving them more focused practice on particular knowledge, strategies and skills; 
- 
giving them more clues and guidance in the task sheets; and 
- 
rephrasing some of the guiding questions. 
 
A variety of tasks or exercises that are graded according to difficulty are provided to students 
so that they work on tasks that match their stage of progress or learning styles. 
 
Teaching Methods 
 
Teachers should employ a variety of teaching techniques, including:  
 
 
using a variety of questions; 
 
giving constant feedback; 
 
flexibly employing different kinds of class groupings; 
 
giving individual attention during class teaching; and 
 
checking the correction work or supplementary language assignments done by individual 
students.  
 
Teachers should create an atmosphere of trust to encourage students to be adventurous, allowing 
them to make choices, find answers to their own questions and pursue their own interests for 
improvement. 
 
Adapting the Same Task to Cater for Learner Diversity 
 
The two sets of examples below show how learner diversity can be catered for by giving students 
varied instructional support in the learning process along with adjusted expectations in the same 
task. 
 
Example 1: 
 
1. 
Students write a proposal to suggest ways to improve the facilities and services in a large 
public housing estate. 
2. 
The teacher provides additional support to the less advanced students by giving more 
preparatory work focusing on text types, language items and skills, giving them more clues 
and suggestions for ideas and wording, and guiding them to work through a model or 
example. 
3. 
The teacher requires two or more levels of performance: 
- 
The less advanced students focus the discussion on improving some obvious aspects 

58 
 
 
of community life in a large public housing estate, such as cleanliness of the environment, 
security, sports and recreational facilities for young people. 
- 
The average students are required to take a broader view of the various needs of 
different sectors of this community, such as working mothers and the elderly, and 
examine the issue from different perspectives. 
- 
The more advanced students argue for a comprehensive policy that addresses not just 
isolated problems but embodies a vision of how to build a strong community. 
 
Example 2: 
 
1. 
A class is divided into groups of different abilities (about six students in each group). 
2. 
The teacher helps students where and when necessary and to different degrees according to 
individual ability. 
3. 
Each group considers the global developments and challenges teenagers face nowadays. 
4. 
Each group chooses, defines and writes about an aspect of global development and prepares 
a report for the class on, for example, the changing nature of jobs and lifestyles because of 
technological developments, the challenges to maintaining a sustainable environment and the 
implications of the global village. 
5. 
The more advanced groups can explore the issue(s) in greater depth and reflect on how 
teenagers can prepare themselves for the challenges and the possible roles they can play in it. 
The less advanced groups generalise and report on the information they can collect. 
6. 
Sub-groups of two to three students will be formed; each sub-group reads about its 
chosen issue and prepares notes for reporting orally to the other sub-groups, with the less 
advanced sub-groups getting help from the teacher as well as their classmates. 
7. 
Each group prepares a formal report in writing, including information and views given by 
the sub-groups, and then relates it to the whole class for open discussion. A number of periods 
should be allocated for all the groups to present their reports in turn. 
8. 
The teacher gives advice and suggestions on how the groups can improve their work; the 
reports can be re-drafted and revised a number of times if necessary. The reports are also 
marked and corrected. 
 
Assessment  
 
To keep track of students’ progress and demonstrate their learning and achievements, teachers are 
encouraged to: 
 
 
promote formative assessment to provide effective and timely feedback, both formal and 
informal; 
 
adopt different modes of assessment (e.g. short assignments, assessment tasks, projects, 
questioning) to address the needs of students, identify their strengths and weaknesses and 

59 
 
 
decide on the appropriate content, and learning and teaching strategies; 
 
help students develop the necessary skills to assess and monitor their own learning through 
self-assessment so as to enable them to learn better; 
 
promote peer assessment through which students can develop a better understanding of the 
learning objectives and assessment criteria, and what is expected of them; and 
 
use e-assessment to help identify students’ strengths and weaknesses and facilitate analysis 
of their performance. 
 
The final outcome of the effort to cater for learner diversity should be to enhance pleasure and 
satisfaction in learning, confidence, motivation, concentration and persistence, and knowledge and 
skills in all students. 
 
For more information on the learning and teaching strategies which could be adopted by teachers 
to cater for learner diversity, support students with special educational needs and maximise the 
potential of gifted students in the mainstream English Language classroom, please refer to Sections 
4.3.2, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 of the English Language Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide 
(Primary 1 – Secondary 6) (2017). 
 
 

60 
 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 

61 
 
 
Chapter 5  Assessment 
 
This chapter discusses the role of assessment in learning and teaching English Language, the 
principles that should guide the assessment of the subject and the need for both formative and 
summative assessments. It also provides guidance on internal assessment and details of the public 
assessment of English Language. Finally, information is given on how standards are established 
and maintained and how results are reported with reference to these standards.  
 
5.1 
The Roles of Assessment 
 
Assessment is the practice of collecting evidence of student learning. It is a vital and integral part 
of classroom instruction, and serves several purposes and audiences. 
 
First and foremost, it gives feedback to students, teachers, schools and parents on the effectiveness 
of teaching and on students’ strengths and weaknesses in learning. 
 
Secondly, it provides information to schools, school systems, the Government, tertiary institutions 
and employers to enable them to monitor standards and to facilitate selection decisions. 
 
The most important role of assessment is in promoting learning and monitoring students’ progress. 
However, in the senior secondary years, the more public roles of assessment for certification and 
selection come to the fore. Inevitably, these imply high-stakes uses of assessment since the results 
are typically used to make critical decisions about individuals. 
 
The Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE) provides a common end-of-school 
credential that gives access to further education and work. It summarises student performance in 
the four core subjects (including English Language) and in various elective subjects, including 
both discipline-oriented subjects and the Applied Learning courses. It needs to be interpreted in 
conjunction with other information about students as shown in the Student Learning Profile. 
 
5.2 
Formative and Summative Assessments 
 
In the context of the English Language curriculum, assessment serves the principal aim of 
promoting learning by providing information about students’ achievements in relation to the 
learning targets and objectives. Assessment helps students, their teachers and parents understand 
the learning performance and progress, facilitating planning for further improvement. To match 
the learning targets, objectives and outcomes, different modes of assessment serving formative 
and/or summative purposes are encouraged in the English Language curriculum. 
 

62 
 
 
Formative assessment focuses on the ongoing evaluation of students’ performance and abilities. It 
is often informal and carried out during the learning process. Formative assessment, which 
typically involves close attention to small “chunks” of learning, may take place on a daily basis. 
The main aim of formative assessment is to improve learning and teaching through: 
 
 
diagnosing students’ strengths and learning problems or difficulties; 
 
providing quick guidance, quality feedback, timely support and enrichment for students; and 
 
reviewing and improving teaching plans and strategies. 
 
Summative assessment focuses on determining progress in learning and evaluating students’ 
performance and abilities. It is normally undertaken at the end of a period of instruction (e.g. end 
of a school term, a school year or a key stage of schooling) and reviews much larger “chunks” of 
learning. Its main purposes are to: 
 
 
provide a comprehensive summary of students’ learning achievements during the period and 
their performance at that particular point of time; and 
 
help teachers check whether the major aspects of the learning targets and objectives have 
been achieved. 
 
Assessment of, for and as Learning  
 
Summative assessment is closely related to “assessment of learning”, while formative assessment 
comprises “assessment for learning” and “assessment as learning”. The table below explains the 
three complementary assessment concepts, their relationship and the different purposes they serve. 
 
Summative 
Assessment of 
Learning 
(AoL) 
AoL describes the level students have attained in learning and 
shows what they know and can do over a period of time. It gives an 
overview of the previous learning of students and is mainly used for 
reporting purposes. 
Formative 
Assessment for 
Learning (AfL) 
AfL integrates assessment into learning and teaching. It assists 
students to understand what they are learning, what they have 
attained, and what is expected of them, and helps teachers collect 
evidence of students’ learning so that teachers can provide students 
with timely feedback and refine their teaching strategies. 
Assessment as 
Learning 
(AaL) 
AaL engages students in reflecting on and monitoring their progress 
of learning through strengthening their roles and responsibilities in 
relation to their learning. Students are actively involved in 
regulating the learning process, evaluating their own performance 
against the learning goals, and planning for the next step in learning. 
 

63 
 
 
Schools are encouraged to extend formative assessment from “assessment for learning” to 
“assessment as learning”, which empowers students to reflect on their own learning and develop 
their habit of mind and skills to monitor and evaluate their own progress. Teachers are also advised 
to adopt more diversified modes of assessment and make the best use of assessment data to inform 
learning and teaching. 
 
Internal and Public Assessment  
 
Another distinction to be made is between internal assessment and public assessment. Internal 
assessment refers to the assessment practices that teachers and schools employ as part of the 
ongoing learning and teaching process during the three years of senior secondary studies. In 
contrast, public assessment refers to the assessment conducted as part of the assessment process in 
place for all schools. Within the context of the HKDSE, this means both the public examinations 
and the moderated School-based Assessment (SBA) conducted or supervised by the Hong Kong 
Examinations and Assessment Authority (HKEAA). On balance, internal assessment should be 
more formative, whereas public assessment tends to be more summative. Nevertheless, this need 
not be seen as a simple dichotomy. The inclusion of SBA in the public assessment is an attempt to 
enhance formative assessment or assessment for learning within the context of the HKDSE. 
 
For more information on assessment of English Language, please refer to Chapter 5 of the English 
Language Education Key Learning Area Curriculum Guide (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) (2017). 
 
5.3 
Assessment Objectives 
 
The learning objectives to be assessed in English Language listed below are closely aligned with 
the curriculum framework presented in Chapter 2 of this Guide. 
 
Reading 
 
 
Understand and interpret the purpose and meaning of a broad range of texts 
 
Identify the main theme and key details of a broad range of texts 
 
Identify the contextual meaning of words and phrases 
 
Interpret the tone and mood of a writer 
 
Distinguish and evaluate views, attitudes or arguments in fairly complex texts 
 
Understand the use of a range of language features in fairly complex texts 
 
Interpret, analyse, select and organise ideas and information from various sources 
 
 
 
 
 

64 
 
 
Writing 
 
 
Write texts for different contexts, audiences and purposes with relevant content and adequate 
supporting details 
 
Convey meaning using a range of vocabulary, linguistic devices and language patterns 
appropriately and accurately 
 
Plan and produce coherent and structured texts with ideas effectively presented and developed 
 
Write texts using appropriate tone, style and register and the salient features of different 
genres 
 
Draft and revise written texts 
 
Listening 
 
 
Understand and interpret the purpose and meaning of a range of spoken texts 
 
Identify the key details of a range of spoken texts 
 
Interpret speakers’ feelings, views, attitudes and intentions 
 
Understand speakers with a range of accents and language varieties in speech delivered at a 
moderate pace 
 
Understand the use of a range of language features in fairly complex spoken texts 
 
Speaking 
 
 
Express information and ideas (e.g. personal experiences, feelings, opinions, imaginative 
ideas, evaluative remarks) with suitable elaboration 
 
Convey meaning using a range of vocabulary and language patterns appropriate to the context, 
purpose and audience 
 
Establish and maintain relationships/spoken exchanges using formulaic expressions and 
appropriate communication strategies (e.g. making an appropriate opening and closing, 
negotiating meaning, making suggestions, using appropriate degrees of formality) 
 
Produce coherent and structured speeches with ideas effectively/clearly presented and 
developed 
 
Pronounce words clearly and accurately 
 
Use appropriate pace, volume, intonation, stress, eye contact and gesture to support effective 
communication 
 
5.4 
Internal Assessment 
 
This section presents the guiding principles that can be used as the basis for designing 
internal assessment and some common assessment practices for English Language for use in 
schools. Some of these principles are common to both internal and public assessments. 

65 
 
 
5.4.1 Guiding Principles 
 
Internal assessment practices should be aligned with curriculum planning, teaching progression, 
student abilities and local school contexts. The information collected will help motivate, promote 
and monitor student learning, and will also help teachers find ways of promoting more effective 
learning and teaching. 
 
Alignment with the Learning Objectives 
 
A range of assessment practices should be used to assess the achievement of different learning 
objectives for whole-person development. These include teacher assessment, self-assessment and 
peer assessment and involve the use of learning tasks and activities, projects, portfolios and process 
writing. The weighting given to different areas in assessment should be discussed and agreed 
among teachers. The assessment purposes and criteria should also be made known to students, 
so that they have a full understanding of what is expected of them. 
 
Catering for the Range of Student Ability 
 
Assessment practices incorporating different levels of difficulty and diverse modes should be used 
to cater for students with different aptitudes and abilities. This helps ensure that the more advanced 
students are challenged to develop their full potential and the less advanced ones are encouraged 
to sustain their interest and succeed in learning. 
 
Tracking Progress over Time 
 
As internal assessment should not be a one-off exercise, schools are encouraged to use practices 
that can track learning progress over time (e.g. portfolios). Assessment practices of this kind allow 
students to set their own incremental targets and manage their own pace of learning, which will 
have a positive impact on their commitment to learning. 
 
Timely and Encouraging Feedback 
 
Teachers should provide timely and encouraging feedback through a variety of means, such as 
constructive verbal comments during classroom activities and written remarks on assignments. 
Such feedback helps students sustain their momentum in learning and identify their strengths and 
weaknesses. 
 
 
 
 
 

66 
 
 
Making Reference to the School’s Context 
 
As learning is more meaningful when the content or process is linked to a setting which is familiar 
to students, schools are encouraged to design some assessment tasks that make reference to the 
school’s own context (e.g. its location, relationship with the community, mission). 
 
Making Reference to Current Progress in Student Learning 
 
Internal assessment tasks should be designed with reference to students’ current progress, as this 
helps overcome obstacles that may have a cumulative negative impact on learning. Teachers 
should be mindful in particular of concepts and skills which form the basis for further development 
in learning. 
 
Encouraging Peer Assessment and Self-assessment 
 
In addition to giving feedback, teachers should also provide opportunities for peer assessment and 
self-assessment in student learning. The former enables students to learn among themselves, and 
the latter promotes reflective thinking which is vital for students’ lifelong learning. 
 
Appropriate Use of Assessment Information to Provide Feedback 
 
Internal assessment provides a rich source of data for providing evidence-based feedback on 
learning in a formative manner. 
 
5.4.2 Internal Assessment Practices 
 
A range of assessment practices suited to the English Language subject, such as learning tasks and 
activities, projects, portfolios and process writing, should be used to promote the attainment of the 
various learning outcomes. However, teachers should note that these practices should be an integral 
part of learning and teaching, not “add-on” activities. 
 
Learning tasks and activities 
Various tasks and activities can be used for formative assessment to monitor students’ progress. 
These may range from low to high in cognitive complexity. They include oral tasks (e.g. 
individual presentations, group discussions), listening tasks (e.g. gap-filling, tables, sentence 
completion), reading tasks (e.g. multiple-choice questions, cloze, open-ended/free-response 
questions), writing tasks (e.g. reflections, narratives, arguments, expository essays), tasks 
involving an integration of skills.  
 

67 
 
 
To work effectively, the tasks need to be well-designed in terms of alignment with learning 
objectives, and have clear performance criteria so that students understand what they need to 
do. Evidence of learning gathered from carrying out the tasks should form the basis of feedback 
to promote further learning. It is not always necessary to give marks or to record students’ 
performance formally. 
 
Projects 
When assessing students’ performance on projects, teachers should assess the process as well 
as the product, through, for instance, observation, conferencing and reviewing students’ drafts. 
Regular feedback should be given to stimulate students’ critical reflection and help them 
improve their learning. Areas to be considered in assessing projects include: 
 
 
content (e.g. relevance of ideas, coverage of topic); 
 
organisation (e.g. logical development of ideas, connection of ideas); 
 
language use (e.g. appropriateness, fluency, style, accuracy); 
 
evidence of the use of generic skills (e.g. communication, creativity, critical thinking, 
collaboration, problem solving); and 
 
attitudes demonstrated (e.g. confidence in using English, keenness to participate in 
activities, respect for others, an awareness of the potential influences of language use on 
other people’s feelings). 
 
Portfolios 
A portfolio is a purposeful collection of a student’s work (e.g. samples of writing and recordings 
of speech) that can provide information on progress in the development of knowledge, skills, 
values and attitudes in a given area. Apart from participating in the selection of portfolio 
content, students should be encouraged to reflect on their learning process, evaluate their own 
strengths and weaknesses, and identify ways of making improvements. 
 
Process writing 
Well thought-out writing involves a process, which is generally made up of the recursive stages 
of planning (i.e. brainstorming, researching, outlining), drafting (i.e. writing, rewriting, 
revising) and finalising (i.e. editing). Teachers should give feedback on students’ drafts at 
appropriate stages in the writing process. With adequate preparation, students can also be asked 
to provide feedback on the drafts of others and on their own. Based on the feedback, students 
can improve their drafts by making suitable revisions. Initial feedback can focus on higher-
order or global level concerns – ideas, organisation and genre requirements – and thereafter on 
lower-order or surface-level concerns such as language (grammar and mechanics) and style. 
Teachers are encouraged to develop and use their own feedback sheets or guidelines with the 
appropriate criteria to suit the purposes of the writing activities and the students’ needs. 
 

68 
 
 
5.5 
Public Assessment 
 
5.5.1 Guiding Principles 
 
Some principles guiding public assessment are outlined below for teachers’ reference. 
 
Alignment with the Curriculum 
 
The outcomes that are assessed and examined through the HKDSE Examination should be aligned 
with the aims, objectives and intended learning outcomes of the three-year senior secondary 
curriculum. To enhance the validity of the public assessment, the assessment procedures should 
address the range of valued learning outcomes, and not just those that are assessable through 
external written examinations. 
 
The public assessment for English Language encompasses the four skills of reading, writing, 
listening and speaking and also includes a school-based assessment component which aims to 
encourage extensive reading and viewing. 
 
Fairness, Objectivity and Reliability 
 
Students should be assessed in ways that are fair and that are not biased against particular groups 
of students. A characteristic of fair assessment is that it is objective and under the control of 
an independent examining authority that is impartial and open to public scrutiny. Fairness also 
implies that assessments provide a reliable measure of each student’s performance in a given 
subject so that, if they were to be repeated, very similar results would be obtained. 
 
Inclusiveness 
 
The assessments and examinations in the HKDSE need to accommodate the full spectrum of 
student aptitude and ability. A graded approach is adopted in the reading paper and the listening 
and integrated skills paper to cater for the needs of students with different levels of English 
proficiency. Please refer to Sections 5.5.2 and 5.5.3 for details. 
 
Standards-referencing 
 
The reporting system is “standards-referenced”, i.e. student performance is matched against 
standards, which indicate what students have to know and be able to do to merit a certain level of 
performance. The levels of performance for separate skills/papers are reported as well as an overall 
level for the subject, accompanied by the level descriptors. 
 

69 
 
 
Informativeness 
 
The HKDSE qualification and the associated assessment and examinations system provides useful 
information to all parties. Firstly, it provides feedback to students on their performance and to 
teachers and schools on the quality of the teaching provided. Secondly, it communicates to parents, 
tertiary institutions, employers and the public at large what students know and are able to do, in 
terms of how their performance matches the standards. Thirdly, it facilitates selection decisions 
that are fair and defensible. 
 
5.5.2 Assessment Design 
 
The table below shows the assessment design of the subject with effect from the 2012 HKDSE 
Examination. The assessment design is subject to continual refinement in the light of feedback 
from live examinations. Full details are provided in the Regulations and Assessment Frameworks 
for the year of the examination and other supplementary documents, which are available at: 
https://www.hkeaa.edu.hk/en/hkdse/assessment/subject_information/category_a_subjects/hkdse_
subj.html?A1&1&2_1 
 
Component  
Weighting 
Duration 
Public 
examination 
Paper 1 
Reading 
Paper 2 
Writing 
Paper 3 
Listening and Integrated Skills 
Paper 4 
Speaking 
20% 
25% 
30% 
10% 
1½ hours 
2 hours 
About 2 hours 
About 20 minutes 
School-based Assessment (for school candidates only) 
15% 
 
 
 
5.5.3 Public Examinations 
 
Different types of items are used to assess student performance in a broad range of skills and 
abilities. The types of items include multiple-choice questions, short questions, more extended 
open-ended responses and essays. In Paper 3 (Listening and Integrated Skills), candidates are 
required to process information by selecting and combining data from spoken/written sources in 
order to complete various listening/writing tasks in practical work or study situations. All the 
information necessary to complete these tasks is provided. In assessing candidates’ performance 
in speaking, tasks on group interactions and individual responses will be set. 
 
Schools may refer to the live examination papers regarding the format of the examination and the 
standards at which the questions are pitched. 
 

70 
 
 
5.5.4 School-based Assessment (SBA) 
 
In the context of the public assessment, SBA refers to assessments administered in schools and 
marked by the students’ own teachers. The primary rationale for the SBA for English Language is 
to enhance the validity of the speaking assessment by including aspects that cannot be assessed in 
public examination settings. The focus of the assessment tasks is on the speaking ability of the 
students, including their ability to discuss issues in depth and to convey their ideas clearly and 
concisely. Students’ performance in pronunciation and delivery, communication strategies, 
vocabulary and language patterns and ideas and organisation are assessed.  
 
There are, however, some additional reasons for the inclusion of SBA. For example, it reduces 
dependence on the results of Paper 4 (Speaking), which may not always provide the most reliable 
indication of the actual speaking abilities of candidates. Assessments based on student 
performance over an extended period of time and developed by those who know the students best 
(i.e. their subject teachers) provide a more reliable assessment of each student’s speaking ability. 
 
Another reason for including the SBA is to promote a positive “backwash effect” on students, 
teachers and school staff. Within English Language, the SBA can serve to motivate students by 
requiring them to engage in extensive reading and viewing that helps develop their overall 
language ability; and for teachers, it can reinforce curriculum aims and good teaching practice, 
and provide structure and significance to an activity that they are in any case involved in on a daily 
basis, namely assessing their own students. 
 
The SBA component comprises a reading/viewing programme where students need to read/view 
two to four texts (“texts” encompass print, non-print, fiction and non-fiction materials) over the 
course of three years, including at least one print and one non-print texts, and write up some 
comments and personal reflections on them. The SBA is based on the student’s oral performance. 
The reading/viewing/writing only serves as the means to this end and is not assessed. 
 
The detailed requirements, regulations and guidelines are provided in the SBA Handbook for 
HKDSE English Language published by the HKEAA, which can be accessed via the following 
weblink: https://www.hkeaa.edu.hk/en/sba/sub_info_sba/dse_subject.html?2&2. 
 
It should be noted that the SBA is not an “add-on” element in the curriculum. The modes of SBA 
above are normal in-class and out-of-class activities suggested in the curriculum. The requirement 
to implement the SBA has taken into consideration the wide range of student ability and efforts 
have been made to avoid unduly increasing the workload of both teachers and students. Detailed 
information on the requirements and implementation of the SBA and samples of assessment tasks 
are provided to teachers by the HKEAA. 
 

71 
 
 
5.5.5  Standards and Reporting of Results 
 
Standards-referenced reporting is adopted for the HKDSE. Candidates’ levels of performance 
are reported with reference to a set of standards as defined by cut scores on the mark scale for a 
given subject. Standards-referencing relates to the way in which results are reported and does not 
involve any changes in how teachers or examiners mark students’ work. The set of standards for 
a given subject can be represented diagrammatically as below: 
 
Defining levels of performance via cut scores on the mark scale for a given subject 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within the context of the HKDSE there are five cut scores, which are used to distinguish five 
levels of performance (1 – 5), with 5 being the highest. A performance below the cut score for 
Level 1 is labelled as “Unclassified” (U). 
 
For each of the five levels, a set of written descriptors has been developed to describe what the 
typical candidate performing at this level is able to do. The principle behind these descriptors is 
that they describe what typical candidates can do, not what they cannot do. In other words, they 
describe performance in positive rather than negative terms. These descriptors represent “on-
average” statements and may not apply precisely to individuals, whose performance within a 
subject may be variable and span two or more levels. Samples of student work at various levels 
of attainment are provided to illustrate the standards expected of them. These samples, when 
used together with the level descriptors, will clarify the standards expected at the various levels 
of attainment. 
 
In setting standards for the HKDSE, Levels 4 and 5 are set with reference to the standards achieved 
by students awarded grades of A – D in the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination. It needs to 
be stressed, however, that the intention is that the standards will remain constant over time, not the 
percentages awarded at different levels, as these are free to vary in line with variations in overall 
student performance. Referencing Levels 4 and 5 to the standards associated with the old grades 
A – D is important for ensuring a degree of continuity with past practice, for facilitating tertiary 
selection and for maintaining international recognition. Secure monitoring tests are used to ensure 
maintenance of standards over time. 
 
The overall level awarded to each candidate is made up of results in both the public examination 
and the SBA. The SBA results for English Language are statistically moderated to adjust for 
Cut scores 
Mark scale 
U 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

72 
 
 
differences among schools in marking standards, while preserving the rank ordering of students as 
determined by the school. 
 
To provide finer discrimination for selection purposes, the Level 5 candidates with the best 
performance have their results annotated with the symbols ** and the next top group with the 
symbol *. The HKDSE certificate itself records the overall level awarded to each candidate for the 
subject and the level for each of the components – Reading, Writing, Listening and Integrated 
Skills and Speaking. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

73 
 
 
Chapter 6  Effective Use of Learning and Teaching Resources 
 
This chapter discusses the importance of selecting and making effective use of learning and 
teaching resources, including textbooks, to enhance student learning. Schools need to select, adapt 
and, where appropriate, develop the relevant resources to support student learning. 
 
6.1 
Purpose and Function of Learning and Teaching Resources 
 
Appropriate learning and teaching materials can be of great help to students in developing language 
knowledge and skills, generic skills, and positive values and attitudes. They also broaden students’ 
experience and enlarge their perspectives and cultural understanding. The materials that function 
most effectively are those that suit the students’ needs, interests and abilities. 
 
6.2 
Guiding Principles 
 
When selecting textbooks and other learning and teaching materials, teachers should take into 
account: 
 
 
what students already know and what they need to learn; 
 
what will enhance their motivation and learning effectiveness; 
 
whether the approach and coverage of the materials support the development of the 
knowledge, skills, values and attitudes promoted in the curriculum; 
 
the appropriateness of the content; 
 
the design and organisation of the tasks or activities; 
 
the quality of the language; 
 
whether they encourage independent/self-access language learning; and 
 
whether they cater for learner diversity. 
 
6.3 
Types of Resources 
 
6.3.1 Textbooks 
 
Teachers should exercise their professional judgement and adapt textbook materials flexibly 
when necessary. The following points should be considered when textbooks are used: 
 
 
The textbook content should be matched against the school’s English Language curriculum 
to ensure that there is a balanced coverage of the learning targets and objectives, not only at 
a particular year level but also across year levels. 
 
The learning targets and objectives should be kept in mind when identifying the focus of each 

74 
 
 
unit. 
 
Textbooks should be used selectively, and teachers should adapt tasks and activities to cater 
for students’ interests and abilities. 
 
Extended tasks and projects should be designed to encourage extensive reading and viewing 
and to tie in with the modules in the English Language curriculum. 
 
6.3.2 Other Resource Materials 
 
Apart from textbooks, teachers can make use of other resource materials to enhance learning. For 
example, language arts materials such as short stories, films and poems can provide students with 
enjoyable experiences, and enhance their cultural awareness and creativity. Also, non-fiction 
materials such as documentaries and news/magazine articles can raise their awareness of different 
perspectives from which to consider issues. To encourage active use of non-textbook resources, 
teachers should consider: 
 
 
promoting extensive reading/viewing by encouraging use of the school library and public 
libraries; 
 
setting up a class library that provides a wide variety of learning materials to further build 
students’ knowledge of English and promote autonomy in learning; and 
 
making use of community resources to provide life-wide learning opportunities for students. 
For example, schools may organise visits to community facilities (e.g. museums and public 
libraries) to support learning tasks and projects, or create opportunities for meaningful use of 
English outside the classroom through inter-school functions (e.g. the Model United Nations, 
inter-school debate tournaments). 
 
6.3.3 Resource Materials by the Education Bureau 
 
A variety of print and electronic resource materials have been developed by the Education Bureau 
to support the implementation of the English Language curriculum at the senior secondary level, 
including: 
 
 
learning and teaching resource packages (e.g. Developing Students’ Multimodal Literacy in 
the Secondary English Language Classroom) 
 
supplementary notes on the learning and teaching of English (e.g. “Catering for Learner 
Diversity in the Senior Secondary English Classroom”, “Promoting Assessment for and as 
Learning at the Senior Secondary Level: Focusing on the Development of Writing Skills”) 
 
multimedia resources (e.g. the series on Exploring Text Types at the Secondary Level) 
 
More information about the resource materials to support the implementation of the English 
Language curriculum at the senior secondary level can be accessed at the English Language 

75 
 
 
Education Section website: https://edb.gov.hk/en/curriculum-development/kla/eng-edu/.  
 
In addition to the above, the One-stop Portal for Learning and Teaching Resources 
(hkedcity.net/edbosp) also provides diversified resources to enhance learning and teaching 
effectiveness. These resources include curriculum documents, learning and teaching resource 
packages, 
classroom 
activities 
and 
e-resources. 
The 
Assessment 
Tasks 
Reference 
(hkedcity.net/edbatr) provides support for English teachers for promoting different modes of 
assessment in the English Language context. For multimedia resources, including videos, 
animations, short movies and photos, teachers can refer to the Educational MultiMedia (EMM): 
https://emm.edcity.hk/. 
 
6.3.4 Information Technology 
 
Information technology (IT) is an effective tool for promoting language learning. The Internet, for 
instance, is a powerful resource that can be exploited for language learning purposes, such as 
searching for information for a project and accessing online language resources for pleasurable 
and self-directed learning. Teachers should help students capitalise on this resource by choosing 
online materials appropriate to their linguistic and cognitive abilities and by using suitably 
designed activities to prepare them adequately for Internet-based tasks. They may also consider 
using multimedia resources and IT tools such as e-books, application software (apps), interactive 
games or activities to enhance learner motivation and promote self-directed learning. However, 
given their range in terms of quality and accessibility, care should be exercised in the choice of 
these materials. Good multimedia and IT resources should display the following characteristics: 
 
 
They involve good models of English use. 
 
The design is user-friendly, and graphics, sound and animation are used appropriately to 
increase students’ motivation and support learning. 
 
The design of the activities promotes the integrated use of language skills. 
 
The resources promote interactive learning by encouraging learner input, allowing students 
to work at their own pace and providing feedback to them. 
 
6.3.5 Community Resources 
 
Many parties in the community can make useful contribution to life-wide language learning by 
providing students with authentic learning experiences, up-to-date information, and professional 
services and facilities. Teachers are encouraged to explore learning opportunities available in the 
community and work in partnership with the following parties: 
 
 
 

76 
 
 
Community Organisations, Government Departments and Non-government Organisations 
 
Community organisations and government departments offer a wide range of programmes, 
services and activities that provide opportunities for life-wide language learning. Students can 
explore English learning opportunities in the following activities: 
 
 
visiting museums (e.g. Hong Kong Museum of History, Hong Kong Space Museum); 
 
visiting resource centres (e.g. Hong Kong Film Archive, Green Education and Resource 
Centre);  
 
watching shows and performances; 
 
joining competitions run by various organisations (e.g. Sing Tao Inter-school Debating 
Competition, Hong Kong Schools Speech Festival, the Hong Kong Federation of Youth 
Groups English Public Speaking Contest); and 
 
reading extensively in public libraries.  
 
Parents 
 
Parental involvement in their children’s education contributes greatly to the latter’s academic, 
social and emotional growth. Schools should establish regular communication with parents to 
solicit their support for their children’s participation in language learning activities as well as to 
invite them to become volunteer partners in organising English-related activities. 
 
Alumni 
 
Schools are encouraged to utilise their alumni’s expertise and resources in supporting language 
learning by inviting them to share their language learning experiences or provide services and 
resources. 
 
Employers 
 
Employers’ support may be sought for sponsoring language activities or funding award and 
scholarship schemes related to English learning. Some companies have customer service centres 
with information and resources in English, and some offer English guided tours. Students should 
be encouraged to use these to make language learning more interesting, meaningful and authentic. 
 
 
 

77 
 
 
6.4 
Flexible Use of Learning and Teaching Resources 
 
Learning and teaching resources should be used flexibly in order to cater for students’ diverse 
needs, interests and abilities. Through careful selection, adaptation and development of materials, 
teachers can provide many opportunities for learning in which the more advanced students are 
challenged and the less advanced ones are supported and guided. For instance, opportunities for 
independent inquiry can be increased for the more advanced students, whereas the less advanced 
ones can be given supplementary background information or language input for completing 
learning tasks and activities. 
 
Teachers are also encouraged to exercise their professional judgement in deciding how best to 
make use of learning and teaching resources to suit students’ interests and learning styles. Teachers 
can, for instance, supplement or reduce the learning materials and activities in the textbooks, and 
adjust the input or output of learning tasks to enable students to learn more effectively. For more 
specific examples of how learning and teaching resources can be used flexibly, please refer to 
Section 4.3. 
 
6.5 
Resource Management 
 
Sound resource management is one of the key factors enabling effective implementation of the 
three-year senior secondary English Language curriculum. To achieve this, teachers are 
encouraged to work closely with the teacher-librarians to: 
 
 
produce strategic plans for the procurement and development of resource materials based on 
the needs of the school; 
 
accumulate resource materials over time and develop an efficient storage system that allows 
easy access and retrieval; 
 
establish an inventory system that ensures easy expansion and the writing-off of resource 
materials; and 
 
devise a review mechanism for evaluating existing resources to further promote learning, 
teaching and curriculum development. 
 
 

78 
 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 

79 
 
 
Appendices 
 
Appendix 1 
Language Items and Communicative Functions for Key Stages 3 – 4 
(Secondary 1 – 6) 
Language Items 
and Communicative Functions 
Examples 
Use adjectives, adverbs, formulaic 
expressions, etc. to make comparisons and 
give descriptions of processes and situations 
Exercise will make you healthier and stronger. 
You cannot expect more pay for less work. 
John walks and talks like his father. 
Although the twins look alike, they are very different in character.  
Nancy is the girl in an old-fashioned, blue, tattered dress. 
After two months, we found the missing ring under the carpet. 
The children are upset to hear that the picnic has been cancelled.  
It’s kind of you to help. 
Tom is old enough to travel by himself. 
To a large extent, the two pieces of work are similar in terms of 
content. 
It’s an own goal! What a blunder! 
Use the simple present tense, gerunds, 
conditionals, etc. to make general statements 
about the world and “universal truths” 
Greed is not the only force that moves the world.  
Hong Kong is a financial centre. 
If there is a thunderstorm, you should not swim in the sea. 
The plane leaves for Beijing at seven o’clock tonight. 
Swimming is a popular sport in Hong Kong. 
Surfing the Internet is a very popular pastime among Hong Kong 
teenagers. 
Use a variety of tenses, the passive voice, 
reported speech, adverbs, etc. to refer to 
events in the past, present and future and to 
the frequency with which things occur 
The volcano last erupted in 1960. 
He said that he used to swim for half an hour every morning.  
I may have thrown away the book by mistake. 
My brother is working as a nurse in a local hospital for the time 
being. 
I was watching the stars when I saw a strange flying object. 
Manchester United will be playing against Millwall in the FA 
Cup Final. 
He has been talking on the cell phone for two hours already.  
I will get in touch with you sometime next week. 
Security in the region is threatened by the recent bomb attacks. 
He has worked in this bank for twenty years. 
He has been working since January.  
She said she would arrive before noon. 
She has been the Chief Executive Officer of that company for 
seven years. 
Use conditionals, inversions, formulaic 
expressions, etc. to express gratitude and 
regret 
Had it not been for my teacher, I would never have had the 
confidence to finish this project. 
May I take this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude to all 
our teachers for their guidance, patience and support. 
If you had come earlier, you would have met Michael Jordan.  

80 
 
 
Language Items 
and Communicative Functions 
Examples 
I’m sorry I won’t be coming to your graduation ceremony. 
It’s a pity that the concert has to be cancelled because of the typhoon.  
I wish I could take back my words. 
I wish I had been more careful with my spending. 
Use adjectives, inversions and formulaic 
expressions to pay a compliment or make a 
criticism 
Never have I seen such a badly put together documentary. 
Well done! 
How clever of you to think of all that! 
Our students were deeply impressed by the love and respect with 
which the elderly were treated in your centre. 
Use formulaic expressions, adverbial clauses, 
etc. to make a complaint 
I’ve had enough of this nonsense. 
I’m afraid that the noise your dog makes has kept us awake all 
night. 
What a nuisance it is to have to fill in so many forms! 
You have shown no improvement in your behaviour even though 
you have been warned several times. 
Use adverb phrases and adverbial clauses of 
reason, concession, result, etc. to justify one’s 
behaviour, decision and point of view in a 
variety of situations 
We have put more chairs in the school hall in order that more 
people can be accommodated. 
As a result of the new law, many foreign workers are allowed to 
work in Hong Kong. 
Owing to the heavy rain, the concert was cancelled. 
The two friends have fallen out due to a misunderstanding. 
Mr. Lee has decided to stop selling deep-fried snacks in the tuck 
shop because of parental pressure. 
Use adjectives, adjective phrases, formulaic 
expressions, etc. to describe one’s feelings 
and responses to happenings and states of 
affairs in some detail 
It’s difficult to describe my feelings at the airport. I was thrilled 
about studying abroad, sad to leave my family and friends, a little 
anxious about adapting to a new place, and intensely aware that I 
had to make something of myself. 
The runners were too tired to move after the marathon. 
Embarrassed by his careless blunder, John went all red in the face.  
You must be joking! 
What a shame! 
Use modals and formulaic expressions to ask 
for and give advice on a variety of matters 
We would be grateful if you could supply us with information on 
university education in the United Kingdom. 
Could you give us some hints on how to solve the problem?  
Why don’t you add more illustrations to your project? 
Perhaps you should discuss this with your parents. 
Yes, it is a good idea for our students to take part in voluntary 
service. 
Use modals and formulaic expressions to ask 
for favours and assistance 
Can you pass me the salt, please? 
Could you tell me where the supermarket is?  
Do you mind changing seats with us, please? 
I should be grateful if you would let me have the results as soon 
as possible. 
Use modals and formulaic expressions to 
express obligations and prohibitions 
You ought to report the incident to the police. 
Under no circumstances should you touch this button. 
Use modals and formulaic expressions to 
request, offer, accept and decline help 
Can you give me a hand?  
What can I do for you? 

81 
 
 
Language Items 
and Communicative Functions 
Examples 
Is there anything I can do for you?  
Thank you, that’s very kind of you. 
No, thank you. I can finish this project on my own. 
Use modals, appropriate verbs and formulaic 
expressions, etc. to invite, make and refuse 
suggestions and proposals 
Please feel free to make suggestions. 
Let’s make a card for mum and dad’s wedding anniversary.  
I suggest that you help create a school garden to grow vegetables. 
A: Why don’t we bring our own tents to the campsite? 
B: That may not be a good idea. A typhoon is approaching. I’d 
rather sleep indoors. 
I’m afraid that your proposal has been rejected by the committee. 
Use modals, formulaic expressions, etc. to 
seek information 
Excuse me, we’re students from Man Yiu College. We’re 
collecting the views of visitors on Hong Kong. Can you spare us 
a few moments? 
Use imperatives, sequence words and 
formulaic 
expressions, 
etc. 
to 
give 
instructions in a variety of contexts 
The Museum of Tea Ware is in Hong Kong Park. Go by MTR. 
Get off the train at Admiralty. Then, take the Pacific Place exit. 
From there, it’s only a 5-minute walk. 
First, search in the library catalogue for all the books on this 
topic. Scan the contents page and index to locate useful 
information. Next, collect illustrations, photos or make your own 
models. After that, you should carefully consider your own views 
on the matter. Then, organise and present your materials in an 
interesting manner. Finally, make sure you hand in your work on 
time. 
Use formulaic expressions, etc. to make and 
answer telephone calls 
I’m afraid Mr Chan is at a meeting. Can I take a message?  
Would you like to leave a message? 
Use 
modals, 
formulaic 
expressions, 
adjectives, the passive voice, etc. to make 
observations 
I can see that you have put a great deal of effort into this project.  
Never have I seen such marvellous work before! 
It was observed that most students in this class preferred to have 
a packed lunch. 
He was overheard criticising the project. 
Use 
modals, 
formulaic 
expressions, 
adjectives, etc. to make enquiries 
I am writing to enquire about the possibility of being exempted 
from the oral examination. 
I should be grateful if you could inform me of the procedures I 
have to follow in order to apply for this job. 
Use adverbial clauses, modals and formulaic 
expressions, etc. to deal with enquiries and 
respond to requests or complaints 
With reference to your request for a replacement for the disc you 
bought recently, I regret to inform you that this title is already 
sold out. 
I write to clarify the possible misunderstanding which might have 
arisen during the meeting between the two parties. 
I represent the Students’ Union of our school and wish to 
apologise for the late payment for our purchases from your 
company. 
Let me apologise on behalf of the company. 
We deem it necessary to ban smoking in our shopping centre. 
Should you have any queries, please contact me directly. 

82 
Language Items 
and Communicative Functions 
Examples 
Use a variety of tenses, prepositions, 
formulaic expressions, adjectives, adverb 
phrases, adverbial clauses, the passive voice, 
etc. to express factual information 
According to the statistics, there has been a sharp rise in the 
number of visitors from the  Mainland   during the last eight 
months. 
As a matter of fact, more and more university students take up 
part-time jobs nowadays for a variety of reasons. Some do it 
because they have a real need to pay their increasingly high 
tuition fees. 
UNICEF’s work is guided by the Conventions on the Rights of 
the Child. 
Family problems have become more and more acute these days. 
Use a variety of tenses, prepositions, 
adjectives, adverb phrases, adverbial 
clauses, the passive voice, etc. to present 
plans 
The school authority plans to build a new wing next to the hall 
during the summer holiday. 
A 4% increase in spending on education has been planned. 
I’m going to send you an email as soon as I get to Canada. 
Use a variety of tenses, the passive voice, 
adverb phrases, adverbial clauses, etc. to 
find and provide evidence for a particular 
conclusion 
Considering the figures provided by the government, it is evident 
that the economy has been enjoying a rebound. 
It has been proved that passive smoking is extremely dangerous 
to health. 
As a result of the strengthened police protection scheme for 
witnesses, more crimes were reported last month. 
There is no information as to which political parties are the more 
popular among the public, and so a survey is being carried out by 
local experts. 
The candidate is likely to win the election since she is way ahead 
of her opponent according to a recent poll. 
Use imperatives, modals, adjectives, 
adverbial clauses, formulaic expressions, 
rhetorical questions, etc. to give and justify 
recommendations and make proposals 
Stop buying electrical appliances or products that are not energy-
efficient. 
In order to stop bullying, victims of bullying must be convinced 
that they can do something about it. 
I feel strongly that the government should redouble its efforts to 
stop discrimination against the disabled. 
It is of the utmost importance for the government to review Hong 
Kong’s language policy. 
Would it not make more sense to promote the use of canvas bags 
instead of plastic bags? 
Another alternative is to encourage manufacturers to use recycled 
paper as far as possible. 
Use the simple present tense, adverb 
phrases, adjectives, gerunds, conditionals, 
formulaic expressions, etc. to express 
personal feelings, opinions and judgements, 
and present arguments 
I really appreciate your firm stance on environmental issues. 
I am very frustrated by the lack of public swimming pool 
facilities in my neighbourhood. 
Creating more job opportunities should be the most important 
issue on the agenda. 
If the clubhouse had publicised its new policy better, the reactions 
from residents would have been more supportive. 
In my opinion, child abuse has already become a major social 
problem in Hong Kong. 

83 
 
 
Language Items 
and Communicative Functions 
Examples 
I’m afraid family problems have become more and more acute 
these days. 
Use a variety of tenses, the passive voice, 
adverb phrases and adverbial clauses, 
formulaic expressions, etc., to give 
presentations on a variety of topics 
I’ve just read about a topic which worries me a lot: drug abuse.  
There is no doubt that parents are very concerned about recent 
reports of bullying. 
First of all, I would like to talk about the arrangements for the 
proposed trip. 
I would like to conclude with the following suggestions: … 
My findings can be summarised as follows: … 
Use a variety of tenses, modals, adverb 
phrases, adverbial clauses, formulaic 
expressions, etc. to participate in and sustain 
group discussion 
Should we begin our discussion with the first item on the agenda? 
In that case, do you think it’s a good idea to bring in more native 
speakers even though it may increase our budget? 
May I finish my point first before you voice your opinion? 
Do you mean you don’t agree with the idea at all?  
Well, yes, to a certain extent. 
It seems we all think differently and it is quite impossible for us 
to come to a consensus. Shall we take a vote? 
 
 
 

84 
 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 

85 
 
 
Appendix 2 
Helping Students Develop Vocabulary Building Strategies 
 
Knowledge of Word Formation 
 
Students can increase their word power by understanding the various ways in which words are 
built: 
 
 
Affixation 
Affixation is the process of adding prefixes (e.g. un-, dis-) and suffixes (e.g. -ly, -able) to the 
base word (e.g. like). This often results in the meaning and/or part of speech being modified. 
Developing knowledge of common prefixes and suffixes will help students handle and learn 
new vocabulary items even if the context is not familiar. 
 
 
Compounding 
Compounding is the formation of a word from two or more separate words. The awareness 
of compounding may enable students to guess the meaning of new words such as “childcare”, 
“bookworm” and “fire engine”. 
 
Collocation 
 
Collocations of an individual word refer to the combinations that that word enters into with other 
words. Thus, for example, the word “read” is frequently in collocation with the word “book”. 
Knowing a word’s likely collocations is an important aspect of vocabulary development. Examples 
of collocation range from two-word combinations such as “happy about” and “strongly suggest” 
to more extended combinations such as “making steady progress” and “recovering from a major 
operation”. Words can collocate with others with different degrees of frequency and acceptability 
– some words are more likely to occur together than others, and many words occur in several 
different collocations. Knowledge of the collocation range of a word facilitates the students’ 
ability to encode and decode language quickly and accurately. Teachers can either present the 
collocation information directly, by telling them common collocates when students learn a word, 
or use a more discovery-based approach by asking students to search for collocations of particular 
words in a text. Either way, students will always benefit from knowing the collocation range of a 
word and its high-frequency collocates. 

86 
 
 
Knowledge of Lexical Relations 
 
By developing students’ knowledge about the various ways in which words are related, 
teachers can help students understand the richness of the connections that bind the English 
lexicon together. 
 
Word families 
It is useful for students to learn a word and the parts of speech of other words from the same family 
at the same time (e.g. taste, tasteful, distaste, tasteless, tasty). It is also helpful for them to know 
that certain suffixes are linked with certain parts of speech. Many nouns, for example, end in  
-ment, -tion, or -ship. When students are able to generalise from this knowledge, they may be able 
to work out other members of the word family even though initially only one word is learnt. 
 
Synonymy, antonymy and homonymy 
Meaningful practice intended to develop knowledge of synonymy (i.e. relations of sameness), 
antonymy (i.e. relations of oppositeness) and homonymy (i.e. words with the same spelling but 
with different meanings) will help students extend their vocabulary and sensitivity in the choice of 
words. The study of homonyms will, for example, draw students’ attention to the wealth of 
meanings that English words possess. One can, for example, “pick” a flower, a dress, a hole or an 
argument with someone. Homonyms also take students into the metaphorical meanings of words. 
“Hands”, for instance, are more than a body part. We can also refer to the hands of a clock, a hand 
in a game of poker and to “giving someone a helping hand”. 
 
Guessing and Inferencing 
 
One of the most common vocabulary building strategies that students should employ is making 
guesses and inferences about new words. They are the processes a good learner will use when 
faced with difficulty in reading, or in a situation where a dictionary or helpful speaker of the 
language is not available. Students should be trained to make use of linguistic cues (e.g. the 
grammatical structure of a sentence and connectives) to guess the meaning of a new word. They 
should also be encouraged to make guesses through searching for contextual clues within a text 
and make intelligent guesses from a meaningful context. Their knowledge of word formation (i.e. 
prefixes, suffixes, compound words and collocation) and knowledge of lexical relations (i.e. 
collocation and sense relations, such as synonymy, antonymy and hyponymy) can be tapped and 
developed, in order to help them decipher new words. Through some well-designed exercises, 
students soon learn that they do not need to resort to the dictionary for every unknown word they 
encounter. 
 
 
 

87 
 
 
Using a Dictionary and Thesaurus 
 
Using reference materials such as a dictionary and thesaurus is an essential skill that all students 
should develop, in order to become independent in their learning. With effective and judicious use 
of these reference materials, students can not only solve their problems in comprehension and 
confirm their guesses about a word, but also increase their vocabulary. 
 
Students at the senior secondary level should learn to use the dictionary to find out the less frequent, 
unusual or rare meaning and special usage of words in a text. They should also develop more 
extended dictionary strategies to learn to use the words appropriately (e.g. reading the examples 
provided in the dictionary, making use of the information in the dictionary to help them learn 
vocabulary and make sentences on their own). 
 
The purpose of a thesaurus with its synonyms and near synonyms is to enable students to make a 
more precise choice of vocabulary. It can help students find the best term or expression to portray 
their thoughts and sentiments. 
 
Recording Words 
 
Language learning activities and extensive reading, which can increase students’ knowledge of 
new words and familiar words, may be ineffective if students make no effort to retain the words. 
Students should be encouraged to record words and acquire the habit and strategies for reviewing 
new words and familiar words in order to retain them. Useful techniques include keeping 
vocabulary notebooks with words and related information organised thematically or alphabetically, 
and storing vocabulary information by using diagrams (e.g. spider maps) to help highlight the 
relationships between items. Students will find it useful if they also enter information on the usage 
of the words, collocations of them or note down examples showing the usage of the words. Records 
of words according to both meanings and usage are encouraged. 
 
Retaining Words 
 
It is important to help students develop a range of effective means for retaining the words they 
have come across, so that their repertoire of vocabulary can be enlarged. This can be done by 
asking students to make word lists, go through their word lists regularly, and develop strategies to 
aid memory through creating their own associations and mental images of the new words. They 
can, for example, associate words that are related in their spelling, or shape, or sound, or meaning, 
or by virtue of the contexts in which they are used. 
 
Helping students acquire and consolidate various vocabulary building skills is a particularly 
productive area for the encouragement of learner autonomy. Students can reflect on ways of 

88 
 
 
learning vocabulary and develop individual approaches to solving problems. They can ask 
themselves what is important for them to know about individual words, assess their own 
vocabulary needs and shortcomings regularly, and keep a record of their performance in actual 
situations. Students can be encouraged to develop their own personal learning styles for vocabulary, 
in such areas as memorising and retaining new words. 
 
 

89 
 
 
Appendix 3 
Examples of Text Types for Key Stages 1 – 4 (Primary 1 – Secondary 6) 
 
A text is produced for a given purpose. Hence, the text types listed below can be of different 
natures such as narrative, informational, procedural, expository, persuasive, depending on the 
purposes they serve. Teachers might like to draw students’ attention to both the conventions and 
features of a particular text type and the purpose the text serves in the learning and teaching process. 
 
Text Types for  Key 
Stage 1 (Primary 1 – 
3) 
Additional Text 
Types for Key Stage 
2 (Primary 4 – 6) 
Additional Text 
Types for Key Stage 
3 (Secondary 1 – 3) 
Additional Text 
Types for Key Stage 
4 (Secondary 4 – 6) 
 Advertisements 
 Captions 
 Cards 
 Cartoons and comics 
 Charts 
 Conversations 
 Coupons 
 Diaries 
 Directions 
 Fables and fairy tales 
 Forms 
 Illustrations 
 Instructions 
 Labels 
 Leaflets 
 Lists 
 Menus 
 Notes and messages 
 Notices 
 Personal descriptions 
 Personal letters 
 Personal recounts 
 Picture dictionaries 
 Poems 
 Postcards 
 Posters 
 Product information 
 Rhymes 
 Riddles 
 Rules 
 Signs 
 Songs 
 Stories 
 Tables 
 Timetables 
 Accounts 
 Announcements 
 Autobiographies 
 Biographies 
 Blogs 
 Brochures 
 Catalogues 
 Children’s 
encyclopaedias 
 Dictionaries 
 Directories 
 Discussions 
 Emails 
 Explanations of how 
and why 
 Formal letters 
 Informational reports 
 Jokes 
 Journals 
 Maps and legends 
 Myths 
 News reports 
 Pamphlets 
 Plays 
 Procedures 
 Questionnaires 
 Recipes 
 Telephone 
conversations 
 Tongue twisters 
 Weather reports 
 Webpages 
 Book reviews/reports 
 Encyclopaedias 
 Film reviews 
 Interviews 
 Itineraries 
 Letters to the editor 
 Manuals 
 Memoranda 
 Newspaper/ 
Magazine articles 
 Presentations 
 Short films 
 Short novels 
 Social media texts 
 Talks 
 Trailers 
 Abstracts/synopses 
 Agendas 
 Debates 
 Documentaries 
 Editorials 
 Essays 
 Feature articles 
 Films 
 Minutes 
 Novels 
 Proposals 
 Speeches 
 Resumes 
 Thesauri 

90 
 
 
(Blank Page) 
 
 
 

91 
 
 
Appendix 4 
Language Skills and Language Development Strategies for Key Stage 4 
(Secondary 4 – 6) 
 
Listening 
 
Listen for Information, Ideas, Intended Meanings, Views, Attitudes and Feelings in a Variety of 
Spoken Texts 
 
understand and interpret spoken texts in a range of situations and for different purposes 
 
identify details that support a main idea 
 
predict the likely development of ideas 
 
understand the use of discourse markers 
 
establish and infer meanings from clues 
 
distinguish between facts and opinions in spoken texts 
 
understand speakers’ intentions, views, attitudes or feelings 
 
understand both connotative and denotative meanings of words 
 
understand speakers with a variety of accents* 
 
Speaking 
 
Present Information, Ideas, Intended Meanings, Views, Attitudes and Feelings Clearly, Coherently 
and Appropriately in a Variety of Contexts 
 
present feelings, views and arguments coherently and convincingly with suitable reasoning, 
suggestions and strategies for various contexts and purposes 
 
describe details that support a main idea 
 
use a variety of vocabulary appropriately 
 
use language appropriate to the role or situation at different levels of formality 
 
use persuasive devices effectively* 
 
Participate Effectively in an Oral Interaction 
 
open and close an interaction appropriately 
 
verbalise inability to understand, ask for slower repetition and spelling when needed 
 
maintain an interaction by being a good listener and take turns at the right moment 
 
make judgements and suggestions, support and develop the views of others, disagree and 
offer alternatives, reply, ask relevant questions, explain, give examples and use formulaic 
expressions where appropriate 
 
lead or guide discussion and negotiations, using effective strategies 
 
solicit sharing of experiences, views, attitudes and values 
 
use appropriate interaction skills and conversational strategies 
 
use appropriate register in conversations* 
 
 
 
 
*Note: These items are more demanding and require considerable teacher support. 

92 
 
 
Reading 
 
Understand, Interpret and Analyse a Variety of Written and Multimodal Texts 
 
use linguistic and contextual clues, knowledge of features of different text types and 
knowledge of the world to determine the meaning of the text 
 
identify main and supporting ideas 
 
relate cause to effect 
 
relate evidence to conclusions 
 
recognise the rhetorical functions performed by sentences in the development of a text 
 
follow and evaluate the development of a point of view or argument 
 
distinguish different points of view and arguments 
 
discriminate between different degrees of formality 
 
appreciate the stylistic variations between text types 
 
interpret how linguistic and structural devices as well as visual elements achieve certain 
effects 
 
understand and appreciate the tone, mood and intention of the writer and his/her attitude to 
the theme or topic* 
 
understand the different types of meaning of words, and the semantic associations that exist 
among words* 
 
detect faulty or misleading arguments* 
 
evaluate critically views and attitudes* 
 
Writing 
 
Present Information, Ideas, Views, Attitudes and Feelings Clearly, Coherently and Appropriately 
in a Variety of Written Texts 
 
plan and produce coherent and structured texts 
 
organise and integrate information and ideas, and create written and multimodal texts 
appropriate to the context, purpose and audience 
 
present different views and arguments clearly and logically 
 
present and elaborate main ideas and supporting details through exemplifications, 
paraphrases, explanations, etc. 
 
relate events and their causes and effects 
 
adjust the balance of ideas and the length of text to meet the requirements of different text 
types 
 
draft, revise and edit a piece of writing 
 
use appropriate discourse markers to signal the development of ideas 
 
use appropriate linguistic and structural devices, a variety of structures, an appropriate range 
of vocabulary and visuals to achieve desired purposes 
 
use the salient features of a range of text types appropriately 
 
use persuasive devices effectively* 
 
use appropriate style and register in writing* 
 
*Note: These items are more demanding and require considerable teacher support. 

 
93 
Language Development Strategies 
 
 
Develop thinking skills 
- 
use reasoning skills (e.g. analysing for a particular purpose, making inferences, using 
induction and deduction, drawing conclusions) 
- 
explore and speculate about possibilities 
- 
analyse data and situations systematically for better understanding or to solve problems 
- 
generate criteria and principles for action and judicial thinking 
 
 
Develop reference skills 
- 
use the library and the Internet regularly to collect information and develop research skills 
- 
identify relationships (e.g. grouping/differentiating, cause/effect, priority/sequence/order, 
similarities/differences) between the ideas expressed within texts 
 
 
Develop information skills 
- 
collect, evaluate and store information systematically 
- 
identify biased and stereotypic information 
- 
make appropriate and ethical use of information from different sources for specific 
purposes 
- 
adapt materials, text types and systems for supporting and illustrating various topics 
- 
employ graphic forms (e.g. pie charts, animations, maps) to organise information and aid 
the presentation of ideas 
- 
make notes from spoken and written sources using abbreviations as far as possible (e.g. 
i.e., &) 
- 
take down main points and important supporting details 
- 
make precise and concise notes 
 
 
Develop enquiry skills 
- 
ask for advice and suggestions on how to complete an assignment, and take note of such 
advice and suggestions 
- 
use appropriate tones and approaches when asking for information and explanation 
- 
repeat questions and seek clarification politely and pleasantly 
- 
use appropriate opening remarks and formulaic expressions 
- 
request explanation when there is misunderstanding, or pose questions in a polite and 
pleasant way 
- 
understand the use of different tones and degrees of formality 
- 
ask follow-up questions appropriate to the occasion 
- 
ask for information or material, both formally and informally, by writing simple notes or 
letters 
 

 
94 
 
Plan, manage and evaluate one’s own learning 
- 
set meaningful and realistic goals, and determine what resources are available for 
improving one’s language proficiency 
- 
seek or create opportunities to learn and use English in natural, realistic settings such as 
making use of community resources and support 
- 
make arrangements for broadening and deepening one’s learning (e.g. researching job 
prospects, finding out about opportunities for further education locally and overseas) 
- 
evaluate one’s own progress and note one’s strengths and weaknesses 
- 
make use of appropriate learning strategies to achieve learning goals 
- 
identify ideas and data that support opposite views, weighing pros and cons, advantages 
and disadvantages 
- 
look for ideas and information by using printed texts, online bibliographic databases, the 
Internet and the media 
 
 
Develop self-motivation 
- 
identify tangible goals for self-development 
- 
take every opportunity to practise as much as possible, and try to look out for or create 
these opportunities 
- 
develop endurance, tolerance and resilience in the face of hardships 
- 
overcome shyness and inertia by deliberately urging oneself to face challenges 
 
 
Work with others 
- 
communicate to the point (e.g. explaining precisely and clearly, giving clear and precise 
descriptions, justifications or illustrations) 
- 
ask others for help and offer help to others 
- 
employ negotiation skills to solicit support, bargain, reach consensus, compromise or 
solve problems 
- 
listen to different opinions and respond appropriately 
- 
express views and suggestions, draw conclusions and make decisions 
 
 

 
95 
Appendix 5 
Attitudes Specific to English Language Learning for Key Stages 1 – 4  
(Primary 1 – Secondary 6) 
Attitudes to be 
developed at Key 
Stage 1  
(Primary 1 – 3) 
Attitudes to be 
developed at Key 
Stage 2  
(Primary 4 – 6) 
Attitudes to be 
developed at Key 
Stage 3  
(Secondary 1 – 3) 
Attitudes to be 
developed at Key 
Stage 4  
(Secondary 4 – 6) 
 Enjoyment of 
reading 
 Confidence in using 
English 
 Keenness to 
participate in 
activities leading to 
improvement of 
knowledge and skills 
in the language 
 Sensitivity towards 
language use in the 
process of 
communication 
 Appreciation of the 
beauty of the 
language 
 Enjoyment of 
reading 
independently 
 Awareness of 
English as an 
international 
language of 
communication 
 Respect for the 
different cultures of 
the English speaking 
world 
 An awareness of the 
use of English to 
achieve different 
purposes through the 
employment of 
appropriate tone, 
style and register 
 An awareness of the 
potential influences 
(both positive and 
negative) of 
language use on 
other people’s 
feelings and 
direction of thinking 
 A serious attitude 
towards learning 
English 
 An open-minded 
attitude towards 
different cultures, 
ideologies and points 
of view and a 
willingness to share 
ideas with different 
people 
 A serious attitude 
towards language 
learning with an 
attempt to improve 
one’s capability 
 A critical attitude 
towards the ideas 
and values 
encountered in 
spoken and written 
English texts 
 An awareness of the 
value and power of 
language 
 A cautious and 
critical attitude 
towards the use of 
language to achieve 
the desired effect 
 
 
 

 
96 
(Blank Page) 
 
 

 
97 
Glossary 
Term 
 
Description 
Applied Learning (ApL) 
 
Applied Learning is an essential component of the three-year 
senior secondary curriculum. ApL uses broad professional 
and vocational fields as the learning platform, developing 
students’ foundation skills, thinking skills, people skills, 
positive 
values 
and 
attitudes 
and 
career-related 
competencies, to prepare them for further studies/work as 
well as lifelong learning. ApL courses complement other 
senior secondary subjects and add variety to the senior 
secondary curriculum. 
Assessment objectives 
 
The outcomes of the curriculum to be assessed in the public 
assessment. 
Co-construction 
 
Different from the direct instruction and construction 
approaches to learning and teaching, the co-construction 
approach emphasises the class as a community of learners 
who contribute collectively to the creation of knowledge and 
the building of criteria for judging such knowledge. 
Core subjects 
 
Subjects recommended for all students to take at the senior 
secondary level: Chinese Language, English Language, 
Mathematics, and Citizenship and Social Development. 
Curriculum and 
Assessment (C&A) 
Guide 
 
A guide prepared by the CDC-HKEAA Committee. It 
comprises curriculum aims/objectives/contents, learning 
outcomes, and assessment guidelines. 
Generic skills 
 
Generic skills are skills, abilities and attributes which are 
fundamental in helping students acquire, construct and apply 
knowledge. They are developed through the learning and 
teaching that take place in different subjects or Key Learning 
Areas, and are transferable to different learning situations. 
Nine types of generic skills are identified in the Hong Kong 
school curriculum, i.e. collaboration skills, communication 
skills, creativity, critical thinking skills, information 
technology skills, mathematical skills, problem solving 
skills, self-learning skills and self-management skills. 

 
98 
Term 
 
Description 
Hong Kong Diploma of 
Secondary Education 
(HKDSE) 
 
The qualification to be awarded to students after completing 
the three-year senior secondary curriculum and taking the 
public assessment. 
 Internal assessment 
 
This refers to the assessment activities that are conducted 
regularly in school to assess students’ performance in 
learning. Internal assessment is an inseparable part of the 
learning and teaching process, and it aims to make learning 
more effective. With the information that internal assessment 
provides, teachers will be able to understand students’ 
progress in learning, provide them with appropriate feedback 
and make adjustments to the learning objectives and teaching 
strategies they deem necessary. 
Key Learning Area 
(KLA) 
 
A way of organising the school curriculum around 
fundamental concepts of major knowledge domains. It aims 
at providing a broad, balanced and coherent curriculum for 
all students through engaging them in a variety of essential 
learning experiences. The Hong Kong curriculum has eight 
KLAs, namely, Chinese Language Education, English 
Language Education, Mathematics Education, Personal, 
Social and Humanities Education, Science Education, 
Technology Education, Arts Education and Physical 
Education. 
Knowledge construction 
 
This refers to the process of learning in which learners are 
involved not only in acquiring new knowledge, but also in 
actively relating it to their prior knowledge and experience 
so as to create and form their own knowledge. 
Learning community 
 
A learning community refers to a group of people who have 
shared values and goals, and who work closely together to 
generate knowledge and create new ways of learning through 
active participation, collaboration and reflection. Such a  
learning community may involve not only students and 
teachers, but also parents and other parties in the community. 
Learning outcomes 
 
Learning outcomes refer to what learners should be able to 
do by the end of a particular stage of learning. Learning 
outcomes are developed based on the learning targets and 

 
99 
Term 
 
Description 
objectives of the curriculum for the purpose of evaluating 
learning effectiveness. Learning outcomes also describe the 
levels of performance that learners should attain after 
completing a particular key stage of learning and serve as a 
tool for promoting learning and teaching. 
Learning 
targets 
and 
learning objectives 
 
Learning targets set out broadly the knowledge/concepts, 
skills, values and attitudes that students need to learn and 
develop. 
 
Learning objectives define specifically what students should 
know, value and be able to do in each strand of the subject in 
accordance with the broad subject targets at each key stage 
of schooling. They are to be used by teachers as a source list 
for curriculum, lesson and activity planning. 
Level descriptors 
 
A set of written descriptions that describe what the typical 
candidates performing at a certain level are able to do in the 
public assessment. 
Public assessment 
 
The associated assessment and examination system for the 
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education. 
School-based Assessment 
(SBA) 
 
Assessments administered in schools as part of the learning 
and teaching process, with students being assessed by their 
subject teachers. Marks awarded will count towards 
students’ public assessment results. 
School-based curriculum 
 
Schools and teachers are encouraged to adapt the central 
curriculum to develop their school-based curriculum to help 
their students achieve the subject targets and overall aims of 
education. Measures may include readjusting the learning 
targets, varying the organisation of contents, adding optional 
studies and adapting learning, teaching and assessment 
strategies. A school-based curriculum is therefore the 
outcome of a balance between official recommendations and 
the autonomy of the schools and teachers. 
Standards-referenced 
Reporting 
 
Candidates’ performance in the public assessment is reported 
in terms of levels of performance matched against a set of 
standards. 

 
100 
Term 
 
Description 
Student Learning Profile 
 
Its purpose is to provide supplementary information on  the 
secondary school leavers’ participation and specialties  
during senior secondary years, in addition to their academic 
performance as reported in the Hong Kong Diploma of 
Secondary Education, including the assessment results for 
Applied Learning courses, thus giving a fuller picture of the 
student’s whole-person development. 
Values and attitudes 
 
Values constitute the foundation of the attitudes and beliefs 
that influence one’s behaviour and way of life.  They help 
form principles underlying human conduct and critical 
judgement, and are qualities that learners should develop. 
Some examples of values are rights and responsibilities, 
commitment, honesty and national identity. Closely 
associated with values are attitudes. The latter supports 
motivation and cognitive functioning, and affects one’s way 
of reacting to events or situations. Since both values and 
attitudes significantly affect the way a student learns, they 
form an important part of the school curriculum. 
 
 
 

 
101 
Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on  
English Language 
(September 2017 – August 2019) 
 
Chairperson: 
Ms YU Yin-chan, Mary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Members: 
Prof Barry BAI 
 
 
Mr CHUI Ka-yin, Jerry 
 
 
Ms HO Ting-yee, Brenda 
 
 
Mr LAM Ka-chun, Raymond  
(since September 2018) 
 
Dr Margaret LO 
 
 
Mr POON Siu-chi, Frederick 
 
 
Ms SIT Yee-mei, Rowan 
 
 
Dr Timothy TAYLOR 
 
 
Ms Helen WONG 
(until August 2018) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ex-officio Members: 
Ms CHAN Kin-han, Barbara (EDB) 
 
 
Dr Neil DRAVE (HKEAA) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretary: 
Ms Carol PANG (EDB) 
(until August 2018) 
 
Ms PANG Pui-lin, Pauline (EDB) 
(since September 2018) 
 
 
 

 
102 
Membership of the CDC-HKEAA Committee on  
English Language 
(September 2019 – August 2021) 
 
Chairperson: 
Dr Timothy TAYLOR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Members: 
Prof Barry BAI 
 
 
Dr Mable CHAN 
 
 
Mr CHUI Ka-yin, Jerry 
 
 
Ms HO Ting-yee, Brenda 
 
 
Mr LAM Ka-chun, Raymond  
 
 
Mrs Ivy MARTIN 
 
 
Mr POON Siu-chi, Frederick 
 
 
Ms SIT Yee-mei, Rowan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ex-officio Members: 
Ms CHAN Kin-han, Barbara (EDB) 
(until January 2020) 
 
Mr CHEUNG Chan-piu, Bill (EDB) 
(since January 2020) 
 
Dr Neil DRAVE (HKEAA) 
(until November 2020) 
 
Dr Cameron SMART (HKEAA) 
(since November 2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretary: 
Ms PANG Pui-lin, Pauline (EDB) 
 
 
 
