# source_id: coa_pri_e
# title: 小學資助則例
# fact_type: policy
# topic_tags: hr,finance,general
# url: https://www.edb.gov.hk/attachment/en/sch-admin/regulations/codes-of-aid/coa_pri_e.pdf
# source_type: pdf
# extracted: 20260817
# pipeline: expand_vault.py (auto)
# ============================================================

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
1
 
 
CODE OF AID 
 
FOR 
 
PRIMARY SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(SEPTEMBER 1994) 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
2
CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS 
Contents  
 
 
 
 
     
Sections 
Part I  
Introduction 
Interpretation  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  
Delegation of Power   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  
Management of Aided Schools  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3  
Additional Managers   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4  
Minimum Number of Managers  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5  
Access to Accounts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
  
Part II  
 
  Grant of Aid  
Calculation of Grant  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Kinds of Grant   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8-9 
Permanent Secretary's Authority  
 
 
 
 
         10-12 
Permanent Secretary to approve fees  
 
 
 
 
 
13 
Subscriptions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
Method of payment of fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
Expenditure of School Income  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
Acceptance of Donations, Rentals   
 
 
      
    17-18 
Recurrent Grants  
Salaries Grant  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 
Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
 
 
      20 
Approved Staff Establishments  
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 
Salaries, Increments, and Allowance  
 
 
 
 
    22-25 
Leave, Teaching Staff, Educational Psychologists, 
School-based Speech Therapists, Primary School Assistant  
Social Work Officers & School Executive Officers       
         26-30  
Supply Teachers & Temporary Replacements  
 
 
         31-32 
Appointment of Clerical Staff  
 
 
 
 
 
 
33 
Leave, Non-Teaching Staff, Educational Psychologists, 
School-based Speech Therapists, Primary School Assistant  
Social Work Officers & School Executive Officers 
 
         34-35 
Operating Expenses Block Grant  
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant  
 
 
 
 
37  
Rent and Rates Grant   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38  
Non-Recurrent & Capital Grants  
 
 
 
 
 
     39  
New Buildings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    40-41 
Insurance   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42  
 
Part III  
Administration of Aided Schools  
Admission of Pupils  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43  
Promotion of Pupils 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
Suspension & Expulsion of Pupils   
 
 
 
 
 
45  
Rate of Repetition  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46  
Teaching Practice Arrangements  
 
 
 
 
 
 
47  
Use of School Premises  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48  
Appointment & Dismissal of Staff   
 
 
 
 
    49-50  
Conditions of Appointment   
 
 
 
       
    51-56  
Termination of Employment   
 
 
 
 
 
 
57  
Appointment of Educational Psychologists, School-based Speech  
Therapists, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers &  
School Executive Officers                                      58 
Retirement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59  
Promotion and Regrading 
 
 
 
       
         60-62  
Outside Duties   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
63  
Provident Fund   
 
 
 
 
 
       
    64-65  
School Accounts  
 
 
 
 
       
         66-75  
 
 
Part IV  
Appendices  
Part V  
Index  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
3
Purpose of the Code 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
Interpretation 
1.  (a)  This Code of Aid prescribes the rules and conditions in accordance with which the 
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region promotes education by 
means of grants to such primary schools as may be approved for this purpose by the 
Permanent Secretary for Education. 
 
(b) In this Code of Aid, "Government" means the Government of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region; “Permanent Secretary” means the Permanent Secretary for 
Education. 
Permanent Secretary may delegate powers 
2.  (a)  A Deputy Secretary for Education may exercise any function of the Permanent Secretary 
under this Code of Aid. 
 
(b)  The Permanent Secretary may authorise any officer of the Education Bureau to exercise 
any function of the Permanent Secretary under any provision of this Code of Aid. 
Management of aided schools 
3.  A school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code of Aid shall be managed and 
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Education Ordinance and of subsidiary 
legislation made under that Ordinance, and in compliance with the provisions of this Code 
of Aid and such instructions concerning aided schools as the Permanent Secretary may from 
time to time issue. An administrative guide for aided schools is in Appendix 1. 
Permanent Secretary may appoint additional managers 
4.  If it appears to the Permanent Secretary - 
 
(a) that a school is not being managed satisfactorily or that the education of the pupils is 
not being promoted in a proper manner; or 
 
(b)  that the composition of the School Management Committee is such that the school is 
not likely to be managed satisfactorily, or is such that the education of the pupils is not 
likely to be promoted in a proper manner; or 
 
(c) that for any reason a school has no manager, 
he may appoint one or more persons to be additional managers of the school for such period 
as he thinks fit.  
Minimum number of managers  
5.  The School Management Committee in receipt of [aid under the terms of this Code of Aid 
shall consist of no less than five managers except in cases as approved by the Permanent 
Secretary. 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
4
Director of Audit and Commissioner Against Corruption to have right of access to records 
and accounts  
6.  As a condition of grant, the Director of Audit and Commissioner Against Corruption or any 
officer duly authorised by them may, if they consider it necessary in the public interest, have 
access to the records and accounts of a school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code 
of Aid and to the records and accounts of any controlling or any other agencies to which 
money from the school is diverted which is directly or indirectly involved with the 
expenditure of public money, or special funds established for educational development out 
of income of such a school derived otherwise than from Government grants. In this 
connection, the staff of a school or of any controlling or any other agencies to which money 
from the school is diverted will be obliged to explain to the Director of Audit and 
Commissioner Against Corruption or to their authorised representatives, any matter relating 
to the receipt, expenditure or custody of money for which the school or any controlling or 
any other agencies to which money from the school is diverted or both are accountable in the 
public interest. 
II. 
GRANT OF AID 
Government aid and fees to be calculated so as to enable schools to provide education of an 
acceptable standard 
7.  The kinds of grant necessary to cover the normal expenditure of a school shall be calculated 
in such a way that such grants together with the income from tuition fees, in those schools 
where fees are chargeable, should in general be sufficient to enable an aided school to provide 
education of a standard acceptable to the Permanent Secretary, subject to the provisions of 
this Code of Aid. 
Grants of specified kinds 
8.  Aid to schools may consist of one or more of the following grants - 
 
(a) Recurrent Grants : 
 
(i) 
Salaries Grant 
 
(ii) 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
(iii) Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
(iv) Rent and Rates Grant 
 
(b) Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
 
(c) Non-recurrent Grants for curriculum development 
Permanent Secretary to determine grants 
9.  (a)  The Permanent Secretary shall, after making such inquiries as he considers necessary, 
determine to which schools grants are to be made, and shall determine the kind and 
amount of grant to be made to each such school. 
 
(b) The Permanent Secretary may withdraw a grant wholly or in part if he is satisfied that 
the school to which the grant was made is no longer in need of such grant or part of such 
grant. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
5
Powers of the Permanent Secretary to reduce or withdraw grants  
10.  (a)  The Permanent Secretary may, if it appears to him that the School Management 
Committee is not managing the school satisfactorily, or that the education of the pupils 
is not being promoted in a proper manner, or that the class structure is not being 
organised in such a manner as may be determined by the Permanent Secretary from time 
to time in accordance with Section 12(b) below, reduce or withdraw any grant made to 
such school. The Permanent Secretary shall cause a notice in writing to be served on the 
School Management Committee, setting out the grounds on which it appears to him that 
the school is not being managed satisfactorily, or that the education of the pupils is not 
being promoted in a proper manner, or that the class structure is not being organised in 
accordance with Section 12(b) below; and giving formal warning that consideration is 
being given to reduction or withdrawal of grants.  
 
(b) If, after a period of three months from the date of the notice specified in (a), the 
Permanent Secretary is satisfied that the School Management Committee is not 
managing the school satisfactorily, or that the education of the pupils is not being 
promoted in a proper manner, or that the class structure is not being organised in 
accordance with Section 12(b) below, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served on 
the School Management Committee, stating his intention to reduce or withdraw the 
grant at the termination of a period of three months from the date of such notice. 
 
(c) Notwithstanding (a) and (b) above, the Permanent Secretary may, in cases where he is 
satisfied that there has been serious financial irregularity, reduce or withdraw any grant 
as he deems fit. The Permanent Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to refund to the Government all building, special expenditure or recurrent 
grants received, or an equitable proportion of such grants as assessed by the Government. 
Grants to be refunded in certain circumstances  
11.  (a)  If the School Management Committee wishes to cease to manage and conduct the school 
under the terms of this Code of Aid it shall give to the Permanent Secretary three months' 
notice in writing of such intention, and may be required on the termination of such three 
months' notice, to refund to the Government all Recurrent and Non-recurrent Grants or 
an equitable proportion of such grants as assessed by the Government. 
 
(b) The Permanent Secretary may, if for any reason a school ceases to be granted aid under 
the terms of this Code of Aid, require the School Management Committee to refund to 
the Government all Recurrent and Non-recurrent Grants received, or an equitable 
proportion of such grants as assessed by the Government. 
Permanent Secretary to approve expansion  
12.  (a) No additional aid shall be granted in respect of the expansion of aided school, unless 
such expansion has received the approval of the Permanent Secretary in writing. 
 
(b) The class structure of the school shall be such as may be determined by the Permanent 
Secretary from time to time in the light of public interest and with due regard to the 
accommodation and facilities available in the school and after full consultation with the 
School Management Committee.  
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
6
Permanent Secretary to approve fees  
13.  Unless otherwise permitted in writing by the Permanent Secretary, no fees shall be charged 
in a school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code of Aid. 
Subscriptions 
 
Permanent Secretary may allow subscriptions to be charged 
14.  (a)  Where a school, administered under the terms of this Code of Aid, is permitted by the 
Permanent Secretary to charge Subscriptions to meet expenditure on school and 
educational needs (i.e. fee charging), the amount of Subscriptions in the school shall be 
subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) A school may not transfer income arising from Subscriptions to any other body, or to a 
fund separately kept by the sponsoring body for educational development or any other 
purpose, unless such transfer has been approved by the Permanent Secretary and his 
approval notified in writing. 
 
(c) Schools are given the discretion to collect fines, charges and fees for specific purposes 
as may be determined by the Permanent Secretary from time to time. Any other 
collections will still require separate approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
Method of payment of subscriptions 
15. Unless otherwise permitted in writing by the Permanent Secretary, the amount of 
Subscriptions shall be collected in ten equal instalments payable on or after the first school 
day of each of the months of September to June inclusive, provided that Supervisors may, if 
they wish, require payment of the September instalment not earlier than 1 August. 
Income to be used for provision of facilities in the school  
16.  Schools are given the discretion to use the Subscriptions (Tong Fai)/General Funds Account 
to meet educational and school needs. The School Management Committee should consider 
requiring the school to draw up a list of items to be charged to the Subscriptions (Tong 
Fai)/General Funds Account and providing procedural guides for the schools to use the funds. 
Acceptance of donations  
17.  (a)  The acceptance of donations by schools should be approved by the School Management 
Committee. Prior approval from the Permanent Secretary is required only when the 
donations may incur recurrent Government expenditure. All such income must be 
properly reflected in the subscriptions account. (updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
(b) The School Management Committee should note that before donations are accepted, it 
must be fully satisfied that there is no connection between the donation and any pupil's 
standing or possible future standing in the school and that offers of donations from 
commercial concerns cannot be interpreted in any way as inducements. 
Other income to be taken into account  
18.  When a school lets any part or all of its premises for any purposes, the rental or profit so 
received shall be credited to the school accounts in such proportion as determined by the 
Permanent Secretary. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
7
Recurrent Grants 
(I)  Salaries Grant 
 
Salaries Grant 
19.  (a)  The approved Salaries Grant will be paid monthly and will consist of the approved 
salaries for all teaching staff, educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers employed 
in accordance with the terms of this Code of Aid. For a school which has opted for the 
Revised Administration Grant, the Salaries Grant will also include the approved salaries 
of the clerical staff employed in accordance with the terms of this Code of Aid. To 
reconcile the grants already paid out with the actual approved expenditure, adjustment 
of over or under payment may be made from time to time, but the final adjustment for 
the accounting year, or the financial year as the case may be, will be made after the 
submission of audited annual accounts. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) The School Management Committee shall be responsible for the arrangement of 
rectifying any overpayment or underpayment of salaries with the staff concerned. 
(updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(c) The payment of Salaries Grant in respect of staff provided for a particular purpose will 
be dependent on the effective carrying-out of that purpose. 
Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
20.  (a)  For the employment of clerical and janitor staff, schools are given an option to choose 
between the Administration Grant and the Revised Administration Grant to meet their 
specific needs. 
 
(i) 
For a school that has elected to receive the Administration Grant, the salaries for 
the clerical and janitor staff employed will be paid out of the Administration Grant. 
The School Management Committee shall be responsible for the appointment, 
dismissal, salaries and terms of service of these non-teaching staff.  
 
(ii) 
For a school that has elected to receive the Revised Administration Grant, the 
salaries of the janitor staff will be paid through the Revised Administration Grant, 
while the approved salaries of the clerical staff will be paid through the Salaries 
Grant as provided under Section 19(a). The School Management Committee shall 
be responsible for the appointment, dismissal, salaries and terms of service of the 
janitor staff.  
 
(iii) The School Management Committee shall notify the Permanent Secretary 
promptly of the change of clerical or janitor staff and specify the effective date. 
 
  
Both the Administration Grant and the Revised Administration Grant can also be used 
for procuring ancillary services (e.g. the cleaning of the school premises) by contract. 
Schools which have opted for the Revised Administration Grant may opt for the 
Administration Grant if they so prefer. The option once exercised in favour of the 
Administration Grant is final and irrevocable. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
8
 
(b) The Administration Grant and the Revised Administration Grant, being constituent 
grants of the Operating Expenses Block Grant introduced with effect from the 2000/01 
school year, shall have their rates adjusted annually thereafter with reference to the mid-
point salary of an entitled clerical post and the maximum point salary of the janitor post 
at the September 1999 level. The annual adjustment shall be in accordance with the 
movement of the Composite Consumer Price Index. 
 
(c) The clerical and janitor staff entitlements of a school determined according to the 
respective scales shown at Appendix 2B shall be used for the purpose of calculating the 
amount of the Administration Grant, or Revised Administration Grant where appropriate. 
A school that opts for the Revised Administration Grant will be required to follow the 
conditions of appointment for clerical staff shown at Appendix 4 Attachment O. 
Approved staff establishment 
21.  Approved establishments for teachers and other staff are shown in Appendix 2. (updated on 
1 November 2012) 
Approved salary scales and allowances 
22.  Expenditure on account of salaries and allowance will be allowed for grant purposes at the 
rates laid down in Appendix 3 or as otherwise approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
Date of commencement and cessation of salaries 
23.  Salaries of all staff shall normally commence from the date of assumption of full duties, and 
shall normally cease immediately after the last day of performance of full duties, except as 
provided for in Appendix 8. 
Increments may be granted or withheld 
24.  (a)  Increments in salary for staff will normally be given by the School Management 
Committee when they fall due. Increments for part-time teachers will be based on the 
due proportion of the full-time scale, and will be given on an annual basis when they fall 
due. 
 (b) When it appears to the School Management Committee that the service of a member of 
the staff has been unsatisfactory, the School Management Committee may, subject to 
approval by the Permanent Secretary, withhold an annual increment. In such case, the 
School Management Committee shall notify the Permanent Secretary in writing of its 
intention to withhold the increment and its reasons for so doing and shall notify the 
member of staff in writing of its intention to withhold the increment. Such notification 
to the Permanent Secretary and to the member of staff shall normally be given three 
months before the incremental date. 
Permanent Secretary may specify recognised experience for incremental credit on 
appointment 
25.  (a) On appointment to an aided school, a teacher shall receive incremental credit for full-
time or part-time previous teaching experience on the basis of one increment for each 
year of full-time service or the equivalent in aggregated part-time service in - 
(i) 
a government school, 
(ii) 
an aided school, 
(iii) a school under the Direct Subsidy Scheme, 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
9
(iv) an assisted private school on or after 1 January 1966, or 
(v) 
a private school offering formal curriculum on or after 1 September 1971. 
Service in assisted private schools prior to 1 January 1966 and in private schools offering 
formal curriculum prior to 1 September 1971 shall be credited on the basis of one 
increment for two years full-time service or the equivalent in an aggregated part-time 
service. Only post-qualification experience which is supported by documentary 
evidence and acceptable to the Permanent Secretary shall be counted for the purpose of 
increments. Service in schools outside Hong Kong shall be assessed for the purpose of 
increments at the discretion of the Permanent Secretary. 
(b) Incremental credit for experience on appointment in the case of educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists and Primary School Assistant Social 
Work Officers of a school may be awarded in accordance with the above principles, 
where applicable. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 (c) School executive officers on appointment to an aided school shall receive incremental 
credit if the employees have worked, in or after the 2019/20 school year, as:  
 
(i) school executive officer in aided schools and remunerated under the Salaries Grant 
or the School Executive Officer Grant;  
(ii) school administrative executive in government schools under a non-civil service 
contract;  
(iii) school executive officer in caput schools and DSS schools; 
(iv) school executive officer hired by service providers to station in aided 
schools/caput schools/DSS schools. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Sick/maternity/special tuberculosis leave/paternity leave and paid leave as jurors or when 
required to appear in court as witnesses 
26.  The School Management Committee may grant to teachers, educational psychologists, 
school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers and school 
executive officers - 
 (a) 
the following types of leave in accordance with the conditions specified at Appendices 
9 and 10 - 
 (i) 
sick leave (paid and no-pay);  
 (ii) maternity leave (paid and no-pay);  
 (iii) special tuberculosis leave (paid and no-pay); and 
         (iv)  paternity leave 
         and 
 (b) 
paid leave to those selected to serve as jurors and those required to appear in court as 
witnesses. 
  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve paid study leave to teachers, educational psychologists, 
school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers and school 
executive officers 
27.   (a)  A teacher in an aided school who is selected by the Permanent Secretary for a course 
of training may continue to receive full salary for the approved period of study leave.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
10 
 (b) 
A teacher in an aided school attending such other course as the Permanent Secretary 
may have approved, may receive, for the approved period of study leave full salary or 
such proportion of full salary as the Permanent Secretary may determine. No 
application for paid study leave will be considered unless the prior approval of the 
Permanent Secretary has been obtained for the teacher to attend the course. 
 (c)  Educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant 
Social Work Officers and school executive officers will be granted the same study leave 
benefits as those for teaching staff. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Leave that requires prior approval of Permanent Secretary 
28.  (a)  Prior approval of the Permanent Secretary is required in respect of the following types 
of leave to teachers, educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary 
School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers - 
 (i) 
no-pay leave other than no-pay sick/maternity/special tuberculosis leave;  
 
(ii) study leave other than that provided under Section 27, or which has not been 
endorsed by the Permanent Secretary in advance; and  
 
(iii)  any other kinds of leave not specified in this Code. 
 
 
 (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b)  The Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of no-pay leave under (a) (i) above to 
a staff recommended for such leave by the School Management Committee. Such no-
pay leave shall not be counted for the purposes of increments. (updated on 1 November 
2012) 
 
 
(c)  When the last day of such no-pay leave is followed by a Sunday or a gazetted public 
holiday, such Sunday or gazetted public holiday will be regarded as an extension of the 
period of no-pay leave.  
 
(d) 
When the last day of such no-pay leave of a teacher is followed by the major school 
holidays, i.e., Christmas, Chinese New Year, Easter and Summer Vacation, payment of 
salary will resume on the day the teacher reports to school for duty, provided that it is 
neither a Sunday nor a gazetted public holiday. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(e) 
When the last day of such no-pay leave is followed by a school holiday, other than the 
major school holidays, payment of salary will resume on the day following the last day 
of such no-pay leave provided that it is neither a Sunday nor a gazetted public holiday. 
 
(f) 
Where, however, no-pay leave has been granted as no-pay maternity, sick, or special 
tuberculosis leave, payment of salary will resume on the day following the last day of 
such no-pay leave, notwithstanding that the day following the last day of such no-pay 
leave may be a Sunday or a gazetted public holiday. 
 
Special leave 
29.  (a)  Normally special leave with pay will not be granted to teachers on account of personal 
affairs during the term. However, in exceptional cases, the Supervisor may grant special 
leave with pay for a maximum of 2 days per academic year to teachers on grounds of 
urgent private affairs of grave importance. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
11 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may also grant paid leave of not more than 14 
days to any teacher for each academic year to represent HKSAR in 
national/international conferences or events such as the Asian Games and the Olympic 
Games; or being invited to present paper or speak at national/international conferences 
in connection with education or participating in training and camping exercises of Civil 
Aid Service, Auxiliary Medical Service or Auxiliary Police Force. Sufficient grounds 
and justifications should be produced to support the grant of paid leave. (updated on 
12 January 2006) 
Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of paid leave to Heads 
30.  The Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of paid study leave or leave for other 
specially approved purposes to the Head of an aided primary school. 
Employment of supply teachers 
31.  (a)  The School Head may, on behalf of the School Management Committee, employ 
supply teachers on a daily basis to substitute for teachers who are absent on approved 
leave for three consecutive calendar days or more and claim reimbursement of salaries. 
Application for reimbursement of the salaries of supply teachers shall be made in a 
prescribed form.  
 
(b) 
Such a supply teacher shall be of the same grade as, or of a lower grade than, the teacher 
for whom he is substituting; except that a Certificated Master/Mistress may be engaged 
to replace an unqualified teacher. A supply teacher is paid on fixed daily rates as the 
Permanent Secretary may determine. 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of this section, teaching staff shall include Student Guidance Teachers. 
 
(d)  Service as supply teaching or non-teaching staff on a daily basis shall not be counted 
for the purpose of increments or regarded as service for any other purposes. 
Employment of temporary replacements  
32.  (a)  The School Management Committee may approve the employment of temporary 
replacements on monthly terms of the appropriate grade for teaching staff who have 
been granted maternity leave, paid sick leave, paid study leave or no-pay leave for a 
period not less than 90 days.  
 
(b)  A temporary replacement on monthly terms may also be approved to fill a vacancy on 
the teaching staff establishment in circumstances where it appears to the Permanent 
Secretary that the appointment of a supply teacher under the terms of Section 31 of this 
Code of Aid would be inappropriate. 
 
(c) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of temporary 
replacement for educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary 
School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers who have been 
granted the following leave for a period not less than 30 days: paid sick leave, paid 
leave for other purposes, paid maternity leave, paid study leave or no-pay leave. 
(updated on 1 September 2019)      
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
12 
Appointment of clerical staff 
33.  Schools whose clerical staff are paid out of the approved Salaries Grant may appoint clerical 
staff on the scale shown in Appendix 2B and in accordance with the conditions of 
appointment contained in the Appendix 4 Attachment O. 
Leave for educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School 
Assistant Social Work Officers, school executive officers and clerical staff paid out of the 
Salaries Grant 
34.  (a)   The School Management Committee may grant paid leave on an annual basis to those 
educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant 
Social Work Officers, school executive officers and clerical staff paid out of the 
Salaries Grant as provided at Appendix 11A, 11B, 11C and 11D respectively. Such 
leave shall be taken during the major school holidays, subject to mutual agreement 
between the school and the staff. No replacement will be granted for the staff on such 
leave. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b)   Subject to the provisions of the Employment Ordinance, the School Management 
Committee shall grant paid sick leave to those clerical staff paid out of the Salaries 
Grant at the rate of two paid sickness days for each completed month of employment 
during the first twelve months of employment and 4 paid sickness days for each month 
of service thereafter. Sick leave may be accumulated up to a maximum of 120 days. 
Clerical staffs on approved paid sick leave are entitled to receive full salary.  
 
(c)   Subject to the provisions of the Employment Ordinance, the School Management 
Committee shall grant maternity leave as provided at Appendix 12 to those female 
clerical staff paid out of the Salaries Grant.  
 
(d)   For school that has opted for the Revised Administration Grant, the School 
Management Committee may approve the employment of a temporary replacement 
when the clerk is on approved sick leave or maternity leave for not less than 14 days. 
Such temporary clerk is paid on a fixed daily rate as announced in the relevant circular 
in force. A replacement staff substituting for a period not less than 90 days will be paid 
on a monthly basis. (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
(e)   The School Management Committee may grant paternity leave up to 5 working days 
with full-pay to those educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, school executive officers and clerical 
staff paid out of Salaries Grant with not less than 40 weeks’ continuous service 
immediately before taking the paternity leave. Schools are required to follow the 
administration arrangements of paternity leave as set out in the prevailing circular 
available on the Education Bureau homepage. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Endorsement of records of leave granted and inspection of leave records  
35.  (a)  Records of leave that the School Management Committee may grant to teachers shall 
be submitted in August each year to the Permanent Secretary, who will signify his 
approval to the leave by endorsing the relevant leave records, provided that he is 
satisfied that the School Management Committee has considered each leave application 
with supporting documents in accordance with the conditions provided in this Code, 
the Employment Ordinance and the instruction he may from time to time issue. 
(updated on 12 January 2006) 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
13 
 
(b) 
Records of leave granted to other staff should be endorsed by the Supervisor on annual 
basis. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(c) 
Schools should keep the leave records of their staff up-to-date. These records shall be 
available for inspection by officers authorised by the Permanent Secretary as and when 
required. 
(II)  Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
Recurrent block grant to cover operating expenses 
36.  Schools will be provided with the Operating Expenses Block Grant to meet their operating 
expenses. The Grant consists of various non-salary recurrent grants except those items of 
expenditure which are disbursed on an actual claim or reimbursement basis. It comprises a 
General Domain under which schools are free to set flexibly the allocations for each 
constituent grant and a Special Domain for funds schools can only use for the specified 
purposes. Surplus of the General Domain can be used to top up expenditure on Special 
Domain items and items chargeable to other government subsidies outside the Grant. The 
rates of the Grant will be adjusted annually in accordance with the movement of the 
Composite Consumer Price Index. Schools are allowed to retain unspent funds up to 12 
months' provision of the Grant. Given the funding flexibility provided under the Grant, 
schools are required to put in place formal procedures for financial planning, monitoring and 
evaluation of results. Details of the Grant are set out at Appendix 14. 
(III) Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Recurrent block grant to cover furniture and equipment items 
37.  (a)  The Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant is a recurrent block grant for purchasing 
furniture and equipment items to meet the needs of schools and students. The Grant 
also covers maintenance/repairs fees for furniture and equipment items and insurance 
premium for non-standard furniture and equipment items for school portions. It will be 
disbursed to schools in a single payment annually on a per-class-per-annum basis, and 
will be adjusted annually in accordance with the movement of the Composite Consumer 
Price Index. For a new school, the Grant may be paid in full three years after the 
commencement of its operation and when the Education Bureau has approved the 
closure of its Set-up Fund (New Grant) Account. 
(b) 
A school can retain surplus up to five times of the provision of the prevailing level of 
the Grant. Details of the Grant are set out at Appendix 15.  
Permanent Secretary may approve reimbursement of rent and rates  
38.  The Permanent Secretary may approve reimbursement of rent, government rent and rates 
actually paid for school purposes except for government rent and rates for the area of the 
school tuckshop.  
Non-Recurrent and Capital Grants 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve non-recurrent and capital grants 
39.  (a)  The Permanent Secretary may approve grants in respect of items such as major repairs 
and furniture and equipment requirements not covered by the Composite Furniture and 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
14 
Equipment Grant. The grant shall be based on the approved tendered cost or actual cost, 
whichever is the less. However, a fee-charging aided primary school shall be eligible 
for capital subsidy not exceeding 50% of the approved cost, unless the Permanent 
Secretary shall otherwise determine.  
Permanent Secretary may approve initial grant for school-based psychological service 
(b) The Permanent Secretary may approve, for the purpose of providing school-based 
educational psychology service, an initial one-off set up grant per educational 
psychologist post for the purchase of i) furniture; ii) test material; iii) reference books; 
iv) educational programmes and packages; and v) information technology equipment, 
at the rate as announced in the relevant circular. A separate ledger would be necessary 
to record the details of expenses charged to this grant. This grant should be completely 
utilized within 12 months in which the first educational psychologist is appointed to the 
given post. Any surplus will then be clawed back. The initial grant shall be given once 
only to each educational psychologist post, regardless of the base school. (updated on 
1 November 2012) 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve initial grant for Enhanced School-based Speech Therapy 
Service 
 
(c) 
The Permanent Secretary may approve, for the purpose of providing Enhanced School-
based Speech Therapy Service, an initial one-off set up grant for schools to implement 
Enhanced School-based Speech Therapy Service for the purchase of furniture, 
assessment kits, therapeutic materials, reference books and information technology 
equipment, at the rate as announced in the relevant circular. A separate ledger would 
be necessary to record the details of expenses charged to this grant. The grant shall be 
allocated only once to each school. (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve capital grant in respect of a new school 
40.  The Permanent Secretary may approve capital grant for buildings, furniture and equipment 
in respect of a new school, or of extension to or reprovisioning of an existing school, 
administered under the terms of this Code of Aid.  
 
41.  Procedures in respect of Sections 39 and 40 of this Code of Aid are shown in Appendices 16, 
17 and 18.  
 
Insurance 
42.  (a)  The Government shall carry the risk of damage or loss to the school premises of aided 
schools including furniture and equipment caused by fire, natural disasters such as 
typhoons, earthquakes, flooding, etc. and other perils such as an aircraft crash, 
explosion, impact by any road vehicle, sprinkler leakage or bursting or overflowing of 
water tanks, apparatus and pipes, riots or malicious acts of any person, and damage 
caused by construction or excavation work by a third party adjacent to the school or in 
its vicinity; loss of standard items by theft and burglary; and loss of cash (government 
funds only) in transit. Details concerning the procedures for assessment and settlement 
of claims for damage, destruction or loss of standard items in the cases mentioned 
above, and related security measures are set out in Appendix 19. However, schools 
should themselves decide whether to take out insurance for non-school portions and 
buildings and above-standard or non-standard items of furniture and equipment 
purchased out of their own funds, and the premiums shall be met from schools' own 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
15 
funds. For above-standard or non-standard items of furniture and equipment for school 
portions acquired out of the Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant, the premiums 
for the insurance can be charged to the Grant.  
(b) 
The Government shall take out the insurance for public liabilities and employees' 
compensation as required by the Employees' Compensation Ordinance on behalf of all 
aided schools under a Block Insurance Policy. However, staff members whose salaries 
are not subvented by the Education Bureau are not covered by the employees' 
compensation insurance of the Block Insurance Policy. Schools should arrange their 
own insurance to cover this type of staff, if any. 
(c) 
In addition to (b) above, the Block Insurance Policy includes a section on group 
personal accident insurance for students, which provides a nominal benefit to students 
who suffer from Accidental Death or Permanent Disablement whilst participating in 
any school activities. 
(d) 
Schools may, on behalf of parents, arrange a separate additional cover for group 
personal accidents of students with any insurance company, if necessary. However, 
parents should be given full discretion to accept the arrangement, if any. In addition, 
the group personal accident insurance under the Block Insurance Policy should not be 
seen as a comprehensive personal insurance coverage for students. If parents wish to 
have a comprehensive personal insurance coverage for their children, they may acquire 
it separately at their own costs from any insurance company. 
 
III. ADMINISTRATION OF AIDED SCHOOLS 
 
Admission, Suspension and Expulsion of Pupils 
 
Permanent Secretary to regulate admission of pupils  
43.  Admission and allocation of places to primary schools shall be regulated as the Permanent 
Secretary may determine, and as shown in Appendix 1.  
 
Promotion of pupils 
44.  Except with the approval of the Permanent Secretary, no pupil shall be allowed to take more 
than seven years to complete the six-year course. Provisions relating to promotion and 
repetition are shown in Appendix 1. 
 
Permanent Secretary to regulate suspension and expulsion of pupils  
45.  Suspension and expulsion of pupils from an aided school shall be regulated as the Permanent 
Secretary may determine, and as shown in Appendix 1. 
 
Permanent Secretary to prescribe the rate of repetition  
46.  The Permanent Secretary may after consultation with the schools councils from time to time 
prescribe a maximum rate of repetition either generally or at particular education levels. 
 
Schools to accept teaching practice arrangements 
47.  Schools should co-operate, whenever possible, in the training of teachers by accepting for 
teaching practice student teachers undergoing training from the Hong Kong Institute of 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
16 
Education and the local universities. Consultation with the institutions concerned should be 
arranged prior to the placement of student teachers. 
 
Use of School Premises 
 
Use of school premises 
48.   (a)  The premises of an aided school shall be used only for the approved activities of such 
school, except as may be permitted in writing by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
Classrooms and ancillary facilities should be made available at the request of the 
Permanent Secretary for the operation of evening courses run by the non-profit-making 
school operators commissioned by the Education Bureau. In making his requests, the 
Permanent Secretary will take into consideration any special difficulties and existing 
commitments and will fully consult the school authorities concerned. In this connection, 
schools concerned may charge appropriate remuneration in respect of hire charges and 
electricity charges. 
 
Appointment and Dismissal of Staff 
 
Permanent Secretary to be notified of appointment and dismissal of staff  
49.   (a)  Appointment and dismissal of staff shall be in accordance with regulations 76, 77 and 
78 of the Education Regulations, in conformity with this Code of Aid and in accordance 
with such instructions as the Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue. 
(b) 
All appointments, resignations and dismissal shall be promptly notified to the 
Permanent Secretary. Such notification shall be in writing, stating the effective dates 
and indicating, where applicable, the period of notice given. Schools should issue to 
staff leaving the employment a document certifying the particulars of his/her 
employment including, wherever applicable, the monthly salary, salary point, 
incremental date and leave balance.  
(c) 
For the purpose of processing applications from teachers for withdrawal of provident 
fund, the School Management Committee shall also inform the Permanent Secretary 
when a teacher – 
(i) 
is compulsorily retired, or dismissed or the contract is terminated (on completion 
or otherwise); or 
 
(ii) retires voluntarily, resigns, or terminates the contract (on completion or otherwise), 
in order to avoid compulsory retirement, dismissal, or contract termination, on 
account of professional misconduct or being convicted of an offence. 
 
Appointment of staff  
50.  (a) 
The School Management Committee may approve the appointment of staff paid out of 
the Salaries Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Code of Aid and any 
requirements the Permanent Secretary may determine, except for the following staff 
whose appointment shall be subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary - 
 (i) 
school head; 
 
(ii)  direct appointment of staff (excluding educational psychologists) to promotion 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
17 
ranks; 
 (iii) registered teachers by merit of ten-year recognised teaching experience; 
 (iv) unqualified teachers; 
 (v) staff above the age of sixty; and 
 (vi) temporary Native-speaking English Teachers. 
 
(b) 
The School Head shall check the eligibility of a person for appointment in accordance 
with the requirements of this Code of Aid and the relevant circulars issued by the 
Permanent Secretary. Schools shall be responsible for assessing the salaries of staff. 
The School Head shall verify the salary assessment and inform the Permanent Secretary 
of the salary particulars of staff paid out of the Salaries Grant in the prescribed form 
for grant purposes. 
 
(updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
Teachers and other staff to be medically examined  
51.  (a) 
All teachers (other than supply teachers), educational psychologists, school-based 
speech therapists and Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers shall, before 
appointment, undergo a medical examination including a chest X-ray examination by 
a registered medical practitioner. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
(b) 
Serving registered teachers on transfer from one aided school to another without break 
of service will not be required to attend an X-ray examination or present a medical 
certificate on appointment. 
(c) 
The School Management Committee may exempt the following employees from pre-
employment X–ray examination - 
(i) 
Staff members who can show that they have undergone a chest X-ray examination 
not more than twelve months before their dates of appointment. The X-ray should 
not show signs of active tuberculosis. 
 
(ii) Staff members in possession of a certificate from a registered medical practitioner, 
confirming that they are pregnant. Exemption granted to staff in this category will 
continue until the end of their subsequent maternity leave, at which time they 
should be instructed to make their own arrangements for X-ray examination. 
 
(d) 
The purpose of the above examinations is not to discriminate against any employee or 
job applicant with a disability. Employers are advised to note the relevant provisions 
in the Code of Practice on Employment issued by the Equal Opportunities Commission. 
 
Head of school to verify qualifications, experience and date of birth 
52.  (a)  The Head of an aided school shall inquire into, examine and verify the certificates and 
testimonials of an applicant for appointment as a teacher, an educational psychologist, 
a school-based speech therapist, a Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer or a 
school executive officer, and shall verify any previous experience claimed by such 
applicant, making reference for this purpose to the Head of the school at which such 
applicant may last have been employed. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
(b) The Head of an aided school shall verify the date of birth of any person employed as a 
staff in such school, and shall require such person to produce for inspection the Hong 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
18 
Kong Identity Card, a birth certificate, statutory declaration or such other documents as 
may appear necessary for this purpose. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(c) 
Schools shall keep all copies of certificates and testimonials, appointment forms and 
any other relevant documents in respect of all staff employed for inspection as and when 
required. 
 
Qualifications of teachers, educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers 
53.  Qualifications required for eligibility for employment in an aided school as a teacher, an 
educational psychologist, a school-based speech therapist, a Primary School Assistant Social 
Work Officer or a school executive officer are shown in Appendix 4. (updated on 1 
September 2019) 
 
Temporary employment of unqualified persons as Teachers 
54.  Subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary, the School Management Committee may, 
if a qualified person is not available to fill a vacancy in the teaching staff establishment, 
temporarily employ an unqualified person as a teacher. The salary for such an unqualified 
teacher shall be as stated in Appendix 3. 
Contract of service; letter of appointment 
55.  (a)  A teacher shall, on appointment to an aided school, be furnished with a contract of 
service and, in addition, or alternatively, a letter of appointment. Such contract of 
service or letter of appointment shall be signed by the Supervisor of the school and 
shall be countersigned by the teacher on appointment. 
(b) 
Such contract of service or letter of appointment shall not be subject to annual renewal, 
but a school may make it clear in the contract that, subject to the agreement between 
the teacher concerned and the School Management Committee, the contract may be 
renewed at regular intervals.  
(c) 
Such contract of service or letter of appointment shall specify - 
(i) 
The name of the school and of the employer, this being the School Management 
Committee or, if any school has only one manager, that manager; 
 
 
 
(ii) the date from which the appointment is to have effect;  
 
(iii) requirements, if any, relating to probation; 
 
(iv) the conditions of service and, if applicable, any specific language proficiency 
requirements; 
 
 
(v) the salary to be paid on commencement of the appointment, and any salary scale 
relating to the post, including the annual incremental date; 
 
(vi) whether such teacher is to contribute to a provident fund; and if so, what such 
contribution shall be;  
 
(vii) the entitlement of such teacher to paid sick leave, maternity leave or paternity 
leave; (updated on 1 September 2016)  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
19 
 
(viii) conditions of termination of appointment and the minimum period of notice of 
termination of the contract to be given by either party wishing to terminate such 
contract as specified under Section 57; 
 
(ix) the conditions relating to payment of salary on the resignation or dismissal of such 
teacher as specified under Section 57; 
 
(x) that such teacher shall act in accordance with the terms of the Education 
Ordinance and of subsidiary legislation made under that Ordinance, of this Code 
of Aid and of such instructions as the Permanent Secretary may from time to time 
issue regarding the conduct of aided schools.  
 
Appointment to be initially on probation  
56.  A teacher on first appointment to an aided school shall serve a probationary period of two 
years, after which the employment of such teacher shall be permanent, subject to such 
provisions regarding termination of employment as may be contained in such teacher's 
contract of service or letter of appointment. 
Termination of employment 
57.  (a)  The employment of a teacher who is serving a period of probation shall be terminable 
by the giving of one month's notice either by the School Management Committee at 
which such teacher is employed, or by the teacher.  
(b) 
The employment of an unqualified teacher under the terms of Section 54 of this Code 
of Aid shall be terminable by the giving of one month's notice either by the School 
Management Committee or by the teacher, subject to such provisions regarding 
termination of employment as may be contained in such teacher's contract of service of 
letter of appointment. 
(c) 
The employment of a teacher who has satisfactorily completed a probationary period 
shall be terminable by the giving of three months' notice in writing by the School 
Management Committee or by the teacher.  
(d) 
A teacher employed for a period of not less than two years as specified in a contract of 
service or letter of appointment shall, at least three months before the expiry of such 
specified period, inform the School Management Committee whether or not he wishes 
to seek a renewal of the contract of service. The School Management Committee school 
shall similarly, at least three months before the expiry of such specified period, inform 
the teacher whether or not it intends to propose renewal of the contract of service 
relating to his employment. 
(e) 
A teacher who terminates his employment without having given such notice of 
intention so to terminate as may be required by the terms of this Code of Aid or of the 
contract of service or letter of appointment relating to his employment, shall be liable 
to pay an amount equivalent to the amount of salary of the number of insufficient days 
of notice, capped at the level of one month's salary, to be credited to the school's 
Salaries Grant Account. Nevertheless, the School Management Committee may waive 
the said payment if the teacher's explanation is justified and inform the Permanent 
Secretary of such a waiver and the reasons thereof. (updated on 1 September 2025) 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
20 
(f) 
The School Management Committee may subject to the provisions of the Employment 
Ordinance, suspend a teacher from his normal duties for a period of not exceeding 14 
days under the following circumstances - 
(i) 
in cases where criminal proceedings of a serious nature have been, or are likely to 
be instituted;  
 
(ii) in cases where the teachers' serious misconduct is under investigation and it would 
be against the interest of the school for him to continue to teach in the classroom. 
 
In case of (i), where the criminal proceedings are not concluded within 14 days, the 
period of suspension on half pay may be extended till the end of such proceedings. The 
School Management Committee may decide whether or not to suspend the teacher on 
half pay and such payment of salaries shall be subject to the approval of the Permanent 
Secretary. 
(g) 
The School Management Committee shall only dismiss a teacher for good and 
sufficient reasons (see Appendices 6 and 7). A teacher shall be liable to summary 
dismissal if it appears to the School Management Committee that he has been convicted 
of a criminal offence or has committed a grave breach of duty. 
Appointment of educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School 
Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers 
58. The appointment of educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary 
School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers should follow the 
principles outlined in Sections 55-57, where applicable. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Retirement 
 
Retirement 
59.   (a)  The Head, teachers, educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary 
School Assistant Social Work Officers and school executive officers shall retire at the 
end of the school year in which he reaches the age of sixty. (updated on 1 September 
2019) 
(b) 
Under exceptional circumstances, the Permanent Secretary may, on the 
recommendation of the School Management Committee and subject to the submission 
of a satisfactory medical certificate as to fitness, permit the School Head, any teacher, 
educational psychologist, school-based speech therapist, Primary School Assistant 
Social Work Officer and school executive officer to continue in service for a period of 
one school year after the end of that in which he reaches the age of sixty, and for further 
periods each of one school year, up to the end of the school year in which he reaches 
the age of sixty five. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
(c) 
All clerical staff of a school employed from the Salaries Grant in accordance with the 
approved establishment and pay scales for these staff shall normally retire at the age of 
60 except in special cases with the approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
21 
Promotion and Regrading 
 
Promotion and regrading 
60.   (a) 
Except for promotion to the post of the Head and direct entry to a promotion post which 
shall be subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary, the School Management 
Committee may approve promotion of all staff members and regrading of non-graduate 
teachers to take up a post of the graduate grade in accordance with the provisions in 
this Code. 
(b) 
The School Management Committee is required to put in place fair and open 
procedures in processing all cases of promotion and regrading in compliance with any 
such instructions as the Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue. The 
Supervisor shall inform the Education Bureau in a prescribed form of all cases of 
promotion and regrading. 
61.  The conditions under which teaching staff and educational psychologists may become 
eligible for promotion to a higher rank of appointment are set out in the appointment 
requirements for respective ranks at Appendices 4 and 5. A teacher in service who becomes 
eligible for appointment to a higher grade by reason of the acquisition of further 
qualifications will be considered for appointment to the higher grade. However, a school 
may not exceed the overall entitlement in respect of grades and ranks of appointment as 
shown at Appendix 2. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
Acting Appointments  
62. The School Management Committee may approve full-time regular teachers for acting 
appointments to approved functional posts when such posts are left vacant arising from 
approved leave or wastage for a continuous period of not less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days. The approved functional posts in aided primary schools cover posts in the ranks of 
Head Master/Mistress I, Head Master/Mistress II, Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
and Primary School Master/Mistress (including Student Guidance Teacher). Arrangements 
for acting appointments and allowances are set out in Appendix 3. Such acting allowance 
will be treated as salary for provident fund purposes. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Outside Duties 
 
Outside Duties 
63.  Staff employed full-time in a school administered under the terms of this Code of Aid shall 
not engage in outside duties except with the prior approval of the Supervisor, who must be 
satisfied that such duties contribute to the public good and are not such as to interfere with 
the efficient performance of the staff’s normal duties. Records of such approval should be 
kept by the school. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
Provident Fund 
 
Provident Fund 
64.   (a)  A teacher who contributes to the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund is subject to the 
provisions of the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund Rules made under the Education 
Ordinance. The benefits which a teacher-contributor may receive from the funds are 
briefly reproduced from the Rules in Appendix 13.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
22 
(b) 
A teacher who does not contribute to the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund, and who 
contributes to another provident or superannuation fund approved by the Permanent 
Secretary may on submission of original receipts in respect of his contributions to such 
funds, receive from the Government a donation in respect of 50% of his contribution 
to such funds or 5% of his basic salary in Hong Kong, whichever is the less. 
(c) 
Temporary teachers appointed for 60 days or more and new teachers over the age of 55 
on first appointment are required to join the Mandatory Provident Fund scheme. 
65.  Unless specifically exempted under the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme Ordinance or 
employed for less than 60 days, all non-teaching staff are required to contribute to a 
registered Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme or a scheme registered under the Occupational 
Retirement Scheme Ordinance. 
School Accounts 
 
Supervisors to keep accounts  
66.   (a)  The Supervisor of an aided school shall be responsible for keeping proper books of 
account, which shall comprise - 
 (i) 
cash book for government grants and cash book for school funds;  
 
 (ii) 
petty cash book for Government funds and school funds; 
 
 (iii) attendance register and register of fees/subscriptions/other charges showing 
inter alia receipt number and amount of Tong Fai and other charges, if any, 
against the name of each pupil; 
 
 (iv) revenue receipt counterfoil and Daily Collection Summary in respect of Tong 
Fai and any other income; 
 
 (v) 
payment vouchers in respect of all expenditure;  
 
 (vi) a register of capital assets; 
 
 (vii) a register of non-recurrent grants - building, and a register of non-recurrent 
grants furniture and equipment; 
 
 (viii) a general ledger and subsidiary ledgers showing accounts in respect of all items 
of recurrent income and expenditure;  
 
 (ix) provident fund records for individual staff;  
 
 (x) 
register of hire of school accommodation;  
 
 (xi) register of donations; and  
 
 (xii) stock and sales records for exercise books, stationery, etc., if necessary.  
 
(b) 
All books of accounts, receipts, counterfoils and vouchers shall at all reasonable times 
be available for inspection by the Permanent Secretary or officer authorised by him in 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
23 
that behalf. Records of a permanent nature, e.g., annual accounts, inventories, records 
of capital expenditure and Government non-recurrent subsidies, records in connection 
with school building funds/donations, etc., shall not be destroyed without the prior 
approval of the Permanent Secretary. However, the following records may be destroyed 
after a certain period of retention, as specified below - 
 
(i) 
Minimum period of retention - 7 years : 
Books of accounts, i.e., cash books, Ledgers, etc. 
All types of vouchers, bank statements. 
 
(ii) Minimum period of retention - 2 years : 
Quarterly returns (duplicates), Pay-sheets (duplicates), 
Fees receipts/school attendance registers,  
Register of hire of school accommodation. 
 
Accounts not to include provision for depreciation  
67.  An aided school shall not make any provision in its accounts for depreciation. Expenditure 
in respect of a capital asset shall be debited to the relevant capital asset account and shall not 
be debited to an income and expenditure account. 
 
Supervisor to be responsible for bank account  
68.   (a)  The Supervisor of an aided school shall keep bank accounts in the name of the school, 
one of which accounts shall be kept solely in respect of moneys received from the 
Government. 
 
 
(b) 
All disbursements shall, as far as possible, be made by cheque, which shall be signed 
by the Supervisor and, where there are two or more registered managers, by one other 
registered manager in addition to the Supervisor.  
 
(c) 
The Supervisor may keep a reasonable cash balance as specified by the Permanent 
Secretary from time to time to meet small payments. Alternatively, a further account 
could be opened for this purpose with cheques signed by the Head and the Deputy Head 
of the school, duly authorised by the School Management Committee.  
 
School funds to be kept separate 
69.  Subscriptions or other sums received by a school from the Government or other sources shall 
not, in any circumstances, be paid into a bank account kept in the name of the Supervisor or 
other person or persons, whether or not such person or persons are members of the School 
Management Committee or teaching staff, but shall be paid into the bank account maintained 
in the name of the school. 
 
Submission of accounts  
70.   (a)  The Permanent Secretary may require the Supervisor of an aided school to submit 
accounts at such times and in such manner as he may determine. 
 
 
(b) 
The accounts of an aided school shall, unless the Permanent Secretary in writing 
otherwise permits, be audited by certified public accountants/public accountants 
registered under the Professional Accountants Ordinance; and the audit fee shall be 
charged against the school's School and Class Grant account. 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
24 
(c) 
The accounting year covered by the audited accounts shall be from the first day of 
September of one year to the thirty-first day of August of the next. Schools which are 
unable to prepare their annual accounts on this basis may apply in writing to the 
Permanent Secretary for following the traditional financial year basis.  
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Code of Aid, the financial year shall be from the first day of 
April of one year to the thirty-first day of March of the next. 
 
Permanent Secretary may withhold grant if accounts not submitted  
71.  The Permanent Secretary may, if a school fails to submit annual accounts or delays the 
submission of such accounts without reasonable cause, temporarily withhold payment of 
such proportion of grant made monthly to the school as he shall determine. 
 
Subscriptions (Tong Fai) used for development to be separately accounted for  
72.  (a)  If the Permanent Secretary has permitted an aided school under the terms of paragraph 
(b) of Section 14 of this Code of Aid, to transfer Tong Fai to a fund separately kept by 
the sponsoring body for educational development or other purpose, an audited annual 
statement of accounts in respect of such fund shall be prepared. The accounting year, 
to which such accounts shall refer, shall be from the first day of September of one year 
to the thirty-first day of August of the next, except for financial year basis as approved 
by the Permanent Secretary.  
 
(b) 
The Supervisor of such school, when submitting annual accounts of the school as 
required by the terms of Section 70 of this Code of Aid, shall attach thereto the audited 
accounts in respect of such fund; and these accounts shall refer to the same period of 
time as those of the school, to which they are attached. 
 
Accounts relating to private section of a school to be kept separately 
73.  (a) 
Where the School Management Committee operates a private section or boarding 
section which does not receive financial assistance under this Code of Aid, the accounts 
of such private section or boarding section shall be kept separately from those of the 
aided section and audited; and shall specify any subvention received from departments 
of the Government other than the Education Bureau. The accounting year, to which 
such accounts shall refer, shall be from the first day of September of one year to the 
thirty-first day of August of the next, except for financial year basis as approved by the 
Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
The Supervisor of an aided school shall, when submitting accounts, also submit 
accounts relating to any private section or boarding section of such school; and these 
accounts shall refer to the same period of time as those of the aided school. 
Recurrent grants to be refunded and accounts submitted, if school ceases to be aided 
74.  The School Management Committee shall, in the event of that school's ceasing to be an aided 
school under the terms of this Code of Aid, forthwith repay to Government any unexpended 
portion of recurrent grants made to the school, and submit a full set of duly audited accounts 
for the period up to and including the last day of operation of that school as an aided school. 
 
Outgoing Supervisor to hand over accounts  
75.  (a)  If at any time for any cause the Supervisor of an aided school ceases to act as such, he 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
25 
shall hand over all accounts and records relating to the school, together with any cash 
belonging to the school which may be in his charge, to such other person as the 
Permanent Secretary may approve as Supervisor, or, pending the Permanent Secretary's 
approval of such other person as Supervisor, to the School Management Committee. 
 
(b) 
The Supervisor of an aided school, on ceasing to act as such, shall prepare a certificate 
listing all accounts and records relating to the school and any cash belonging to the 
school which may have been in his charge. This certificate shall be signed by the 
outgoing Supervisor and by either such other person as the Permanent Secretary may 
approve as Supervisor, or pending the Permanent Secretary's approval of such other 
person as Supervisor, by a majority of the members of the School Management 
Committee. A copy of this certificate together with a certificate prepared by the bank 
at which the school's accounts are kept, and showing the state of such accounts on the 
date at which the outgoing Supervisor ceased to act as Supervisor, shall be submitted 
by the School Management Committee to the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(c) 
The Permanent Secretary may require the School Management Committee to submit, 
in such form and within such period of time as he shall prescribe, full accounts in 
respect of the period up to and including the day on which the outgoing Supervisor 
ceased to act as Supervisor. 
 
(d) 
In the event of the Permanent Secretary having required such accounts to be submitted, 
and the School Management Committee having failed to submit them, the Permanent 
Secretary may require the outgoing Supervisor and the members of the School 
Management Committee, or such of them as he shall determine, severally or jointly to 
refund to the Government such proportion of grants made to the school during the 
period in which the outgoing supervisor acted as Supervisor as he shall assess.  
--------- 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
26 
Appendices to Code of Aid for Primary Schools 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
1 
 
2A 
 
 
 
2B 
Administrative Guide  
 
Teaching Staff Establishment, Educational Psychologist, School-based Speech 
Therapist, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer and School Executive 
Officer of Aided Primary Schools 
 
Clerical and Janitor Staff Entitlement 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A1 
 
 
Attachment A2 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment in Aided Primary 
Schools Operating Bi-sessional Classes 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment in Whole-day Aided 
Primary Schools 
 
Appendix  
 
3 
 
Salary Scales and Allowances 
 
Appendix 4 
Qualifications Required for Grades of Appointment in Aided Primary Schools 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A 
 
Attachment B 
 
Attachment C 
 
Attachment D1 
 
Attachment D2 
 
 
Headmaster/Headmistress I 
 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
Primary School Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) 
 
Attachment E 
 
Attachment F 
 
Attachment G 
 
Attachment H1 
 
Attachment H2 
 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
Assistant Master/Mistress  
 
Assistant Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) 
 
Attachment I 
 
Certificated Master/Mistress 
 
Attachment J 
 
Educational Psychologist I 
 
Attachment K 
 
Educational Psychologist II 
 
Attachment L 
School-based Speech Therapist 
Attachment M 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
27 
Attachment N 
School Executive Officer 
 
Attachment O 
 
Clerical Staff 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
 
Appendix 
5 
 
6 
 
7 
 
 
8 
 
 
9 
 
10 
 
11A 
 
 
11B 
 
 
11C  
 
 
11D 
 
 
11E 
 
12 
 
13 
 
14 
 
15 
 
16 
 
17 
 
18 
 
19 
Conditions for Promotion and Acting Appointment in Aided Primary Schools 
 
Teaching Staff’s Contract in Aided Schools 
 
Procedure to be followed in case of Dismissal or Termination of Appointment 
of a Teacher 
 
Payment of Salaries on Appointment, Resignation, Retirement or Termination 
of Appointment 
 
Grant of Sick Leave, Special Tuberculosis Leave and Paternity Leave 
 
Grant of Maternity Leave 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Educational Psychologists Paid out of Salaries 
Grant  
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by School-based Speech Therapists Paid out of 
Salaries Grant 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Primary School Assistant Social Work 
Officers Paid out of Salaries Grant 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by School Executive Officers Paid out of Salaries 
Grant 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Clerical Staff Paid out of Salaries Grant 
 
Grant of Maternity Leave to Female Clerical Staff Paid out of Salaries Grant 
 
Subsidised Schools Provident Fund 
 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Non-recurrent Grants (Furniture and Equipment) 
 
Non-recurrent Grants (Major Repairs) 
 
Notes on Building Grant 
 
School Assets and Settlement of Claims 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
28 
Appendix 1 
Administrative Guide 
First Aid 
 
1. 
In every school, there shall be a first-aid box, the contents of which shall be periodically 
checked, and replaced when necessary. The first-aid box should contain treatment materials 
including antiseptics, disposable plastic/vinyl gloves, forceps, sterilised dressings and 
bandages. In schools where there are science laboratories and workshops, first-aid boxes 
shall contain materials for giving immediate treatment to burns, scalds, acid/alkali burns, 
shocks and other injuries. All reasonable precautions should be taken to guard against 
accidents. Dangerous poisons should be kept in a locked cupboard.  
 
2. 
At least two members of the staff of every school shall be trained in giving first-aid treatment.  
 
Fire Precautions 
 
3. 
All schools, as required by the Director of Fire Services, shall be equipped with fire 
extinguishers kept in easily accessible places and janitor staff shall be trained in the use of 
the extinguishers. The School Head shall ensure that all fire service installation or equipment 
in the school premises is kept in good condition at all times. Laboratories shall in addition 
be supplied with buckets of sand and water. If there is no laboratory in the school, 
experiments involving the use of candles and spirit lamps should only be demonstrated by 
teachers in classrooms provided with fire extinguishers, fire blankets and first-aid boxes. The 
candles or spirit lamps so used should be placed in a metal tray away from any combustibles. 
 
4. 
Fire drills, when all pupils must leave the school building and the roll be called, shall be held 
at least once every six months, or otherwise as advised by the Director of Fire Services and 
shall be noted in the school log book or in the appropriate school record book. 
 
5. 
The responsibility for sounding a fire alarm in a school should not be delegated to one 
individual. It should be the duty of any person discovering or suspecting an outbreak of fire 
to give the alarm.  
 
6. 
Where a school has more than one fire alarm bell, arrangements should be made to ensure 
that when an alarm is sounded on one, it is immediately relayed to all other alarm bells.  
 
7. 
Fire alarms and drills shall always include clerical, kitchen and maintenance staff, as well as 
teachers and pupils.  
 
8. 
No cooking is allowed on the school premises, except in specifically designed and 
constructed kitchens approved by the Director of Fire Services. 
 
Correspondence with the Education Bureau 
 
9. 
All correspondence should be addressed to the Permanent Secretary but may be sub-directed 
to the particular officer primarily concerned. 
 
10. 
Members of the staff of an aided school should normally correspond with the Permanent 
Secretary through the Head/Supervisor of the school.  
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
29 
Admission of Pupils 
 
11. 
(a) Allocation of places in Primary 1 of aided schools shall be made according to such 
arrangements as the Permanent Secretary may from time to time determine. 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provision in paragraph 11(a) above, the Permanent Secretary may 
direct an aided school to admit a child to fill an available vacant place. 
 
(c) Places becoming available from time to time, other than those filled by the arrangements 
as specified in paragraphs 11(a) and 11(b) above, may be filled at the discretion of the 
Head of the school. 
 
(d) All schools shall maintain a system of records giving details of each pupil in a form 
approved by the Permanent Secretary. Such record cards shall give particulars of pupils 
entering and leaving the school. 
 
Suspension and Expulsion of Pupils 
 
12. 
(a) Pupils admitted into an aided primary school shall be allowed to complete the six-year 
course. No primary pupil should be expelled without proper warning and notice to 
parents and without the approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) Pupils must not be expelled solely on the ground that they are academically weak. 
 
(c) In appropriate cases, pupils with persistent lack of academic progress or behaviour 
problems may be referred to the Education Bureau for assessment and advice.  
 
13. 
(a) No pupil should be considered for expulsion except on grounds of :  
 
(i) 
non-payment of gazetted fees; or  
 
(ii) a grave breach of school discipline if after reasonable measures to enlist the co-
operation of parents have proved unsuccessful. 
 
(b) Where approved school fees and/or Subscriptions are charged, the non-payment of such 
fees is an accepted ground for expulsion. Supervisors and Heads of schools will be 
expected to investigate the circumstances and, if they are convinced that the non-
payment is genuinely deliberate, to inform the Permanent Secretary accordingly before 
expelling the pupil. 
 
(c) Exceptionally, if it is considered that there are other grounds of sufficient gravity to merit 
expulsion, the Permanent Secretary shall be consulted at an early stage before any formal 
action is taken.  
 
(d) If a Head is contemplating the expulsion of a pupil, every effort must be made to 
interview the parents. A warning letter shall be sent to the parents or guardians and a full 
report shall be submitted to the Permanent Secretary for his consideration at the same 
time. 
 
14. 
(a) Suspension from school is not an appropriate way to treat a misbehaved pupil. Under 
most circumstances, the pupil in question should be allowed to continue normal 
schooling, pending the outcome of any investigation into the cause of his misbehaviour 
by the school and, if necessary, he should be referred for professional advice. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
30 
(b) The suspension of a pupil for a short period of time may be ordered on grounds of 
unsatisfactory conduct after the parents or guardians have been duly warned and notified. 
The Permanent Secretary shall be informed of all cases of suspension from school for 
more than three school days.  
 
(c) All schools shall keep a record of all suspensions and expulsions showing the reasons in 
each case and the approval of the Permanent Secretary, if applicable.  
 
Promotion of Pupils 
 
15. 
(a) Pupils should normally be promoted at the end of the academic year and retention in a 
particular class in order to allow a pupil to repeat a whole year's work should be the 
exception rather than the rule. It is especially important that repetition should not be 
associated with failure to obtain a fixed mark in any test or examination and it should 
not be made automatic in such cases. 
 
(b) Exceptions to the general rule of promotion from one class to another may however be 
allowed at the discretion of Heads of schools where it is clear that it is in the best interests 
of a pupil that he should be allowed to repeat an academic year for educational reasons. 
 
16. 
All Primary 6 pupils shall be presented for the allocation of secondary school places through 
the Secondary School Places Allocation System except as otherwise the Permanent Secretary 
may approve. 
 
Attendance, Terms and Holidays 
 
17. 
An attendance register shall be kept for each class and shall be made up within one hour of 
the commencement of each school session. 
 
18. 
The Head of an aided school shall keep a daily summary showing the attendance of each 
class.  
 
19. 
The school hours shall be as approved by the Permanent Secretary. If the time devoted to 
religious knowledge and other religious observances exceeds 1 1/2 hours per week, such 
excess time shall be additional to the normal school hours.  
 
20. 
No pupil shall be compelled to attend religious instruction or to participate in any religious 
observances and separate provision shall be made for all pupils not wishing to attend such 
activities. All pupils shall be informed of this requirement at the commencement of each 
school year.  
 
21. 
The number of school holidays, which should include public holidays, shall be 90 days a 
year, with three additional discretionary holidays. The school holidays should primarily be 
holidays for the pupils. Teachers may also enjoy these holidays but they may be required to 
carry out extra-curricular duties or assist in performing school administrative duties during 
these holidays at the school’s discretion. (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
22. 
The Supervisor shall, in accordance with regulation 79 of the Education Regulations, send 
to the Permanent Secretary before the 15th August in each year notice of all holidays it is 
intended to give in the coming school year, including any special holidays given in honour 
of any particular event, and of all dates on which the usual work of the school will be 
suspended.  
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
31 
23. 
The Permanent Secretary may, in accordance with regulation 82 of the Education 
Regulations, by notice in writing to the Supervisor of any school require that holiday shall 
be given on any day specified in such notice and the Supervisor shall ensure that such holiday 
is given accordingly.  
 
24. 
Schools may set aside not more than three days per school year for teachers to take part in 
school-based staff development and school planning work, during which pupils do not need 
to attend school. 
 
Curriculum and Time-Table 
 
25. 
The Head of an aided school shall forward to the Permanent Secretary a notification of any 
changes in the course of study for the coming school year, not later than 1st September each 
year. The Permanent Secretary may withhold his approval of the whole course or any portion 
thereof, and the Head shall thereupon modify it accordingly.  
 
26. 
In every school, there shall be a time-table showing :  
 
(a)  the time at which each daily session begins and ends; and  
 
(b)  the time of the instruction given for each subject of the curriculum.  
 
Copies of the class and teachers' time-tables and time allocation table shall be forwarded to 
the Permanent Secretary on the date specified in relevant curriculum circulars issued each 
year.  
 
27. 
In selecting textbooks for use by pupils, schools should observe the guidelines on the 
selection of textbooks and learning materials contained in the relevant circular issued by the 
Education Bureau. Textbooks should not be changed unnecessarily as this may impose an 
undue financial burden upon parents. Changes should be made only if textbooks currently in 
use are found to be unsuitable. Where a series of graded books is to be replaced, the new 
series should be introduced gradually, beginning at the lowest level and not at all levels 
throughout the school at one time except in the event of the implementation of a new syllabus. 
Any proposal to replace a book on the Recommended List by a book which is not on the 
Recommended List must be supported by good educational reasons. The school should be 
prepared to supply such reasons if required to do so. 
 
28. 
Each school should have a homework policy for which the Head of the school carries 
responsibility in order to exercise proper control over the homework being set. Such a policy 
should be worked out in consultation with teaching staff and, wherever possible, explained 
carefully to parents. The guiding principle in setting homework is that it should be planned 
and chosen to complement and reinforce the work being done in the classroom and that due 
recognition should be given at all times to the age and abilities of pupils. 
 
Closing of Schools in the Event of Storms and Heavy Persistent Rain 
 
29. 
(a) Schools shall be closed in the event of the hoisting of any typhoon signal higher than No. 
3 or in the event of the issue of the 'RED' warning of the AMBER-RED-BLACK colour 
coded rainstorm warning system or as otherwise instructed by the Permanent Secretary.  
 
(b) In exceptional circumstances, the Permanent Secretary may announce the closing of 
schools or the suspension of classes in one or more districts. Pupils living in such 
districts need not go to school even if their schools are located elsewhere. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
32 
 
(c) If local weather, road, slope or transport conditions warrant the closing of a particular 
school, and announcement has not been made by the Permanent Secretary to close 
schools generally, the Head of the school may close the school and notify the respective 
Senior School Development Officer as soon as possible afterwards.  
 
(d) Heads of schools are advised to draw up a contingency plan to deal with the closing of 
schools or suspension of classes due to deteriorating weather and parents should be 
informed of the arrangements through a circular letter, which should also remind parents 
of the use of their discretion in deciding whether or not to send their children back to 
school in the event of heavy persistent rain or deteriorating weather, having regard in 
particular to local weather, road, slope or transport conditions.  
 
(e) Heads of schools are advised to take appropriate measures to ensure the safety of pupils 
in school. 
 
Inventories and Stock-books 
 
30. 
Schools need to keep registers for fixed assets and books. Heads of schools shall keep 
Inventories of all permanent furniture and equipment giving date of acquisition and date and 
reason of any writing off. Separate Inventories shall be kept for Furniture, Gymnastic 
Equipment, etc. 
 
Communication between School Management Committee and Teaching Staff 
 
31. 
The Supervisor of an aided school shall be responsible for making arrangements satisfactory 
to the Permanent Secretary for consultation between the School Management Committee 
and the teaching staff. 
 
Sale of School Textbooks, Exercise Books, School Uniforms and Miscellaneous Items 
including 'Tuck Shop' items 
 
32. 
No trading operation of any kind is allowed in the school except with the prior approval in 
writing of the Permanent Secretary. Any profits so derived should be reflected in the school's 
account.  
 
33. 
The Head of an aided school shall be responsible for ensuring that the provisions in the 
guidelines on conducting trading operation which the Permanent Secretary may from time 
to time issue are fully complied with.  
 
34. 
Comprehensive price lists of all commodities for sale to pupils must be displayed 
prominently in the school. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
33 
Appendix 2A 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment, Educational Psychologist, School-based Speech Therapist,  
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer and School Executive Officer of Aided Primary Schools 
 
A. Teaching Staff Establishment 
 
(a) Basic Provision 
 
The teaching establishment of an aided bi-sessional or whole-day primary school is 
calculated respectively on the basis of 1.5 or 1.6 teachers per class, including the additional 
provision calculated on the basis of 0.1 teacher per class for the full implementation of 
specialised teaching in English Language, Chinese Language and Mathematics since the 
2007/08 school year and additional teaching posts led by the increase in teacher-to-class 
ratio by 0.1 teacher per class starting from the 2017/18 school year. In order to avoid the 
use of fractions of a teacher, the number of teachers resulting from the application of the 
1.5:1 or 1.6:1 formula will be rounded up to the nearest whole number.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
       
(b) In schools with 6 or more classes, the calculation is exclusive of the post of the Head of 
the school. 
 
(c) Starting from the 2019/20 school year, all teaching posts on the approved establishment of 
aided schools are graduate teacher posts with the full implementation of the all graduate 
teaching force policy. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
B. Ranking of Teaching Staff  
 
(a) Head of School 
 
(i) In schools with 1-11 classes, the rank of Head will be Senior Primary School 
Master/Mistress (SPSM). (updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
(ii) In schools with 12-23 classes, the rank of Head will be Headmaster/Headmistress 
II (HMII). 
 
(iii) In schools with 24 classes or more, the rank of Head will be Headmaster/Headmistress 
I (HMI). 
 
(b) Senior Teachers 
 
The calculation basis of the number of senior teacher posts is derived from the application 
of teacher-to-class ratio. The provision of Senior Teachers is included in the manning scale 
in Attachment A1 for primary schools operating bi-sessional classes at the ratio of one 
senior teacher post for every four teacher posts and Attachment A2 for whole-day primary 
schools at the ratio of one senior teacher for every 3.2 teacher posts. The rank of a Senior 
Teacher will be Senior Primary School Master/Mistress (SPSM) or Primary School 
Master/Mistress (PSM) as appropriate. Senior Teachers will be required to undertake 
specific duties in addition to class teaching. The School Management Committee or Head 
of a school may exercise discretion in the allocation of duties to Senior Teachers as well as 
the re-distribution of their duties in the light of the school’s entitlement of Senior Teachers. 
In a primary school with 12 –17 classes, one PSM post will be re-ranked to the SPSM rank 
for the deputy head; in a primary school with 18 – 23 classes, two PSM posts will be re-
ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads; and in a primary school with 24 classes or more, 
three PSM posts will be re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads. Teachers in the PSM 
rank may be appointed by promotion or direct appointment to take up the deputy head posts. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
34 
 
(c) Class Teachers 
 
The rank of Class Teachers will be Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress (APSM). The 
provision of Class Teachers is included in the manning scale in Attachment A1 for primary 
schools operating bi-sessional classes and Attachment A2 for primary schools operating 
whole-day classes.  
 
C. Additional Teachers  
 
(a) Student Guidance Teacher 
 
For schools not changing to the new funding mode under the policy of ‘one school social 
worker for each school’ and not provided with Student Guidance Service Grant or Student 
Guidance Officers, an additional post at the PSM rank for Student Guidance Teacher (SGT) 
is to be provided to a school with 18 or more classes or shared by 2 schools each with 5 – 
17 classes under the same sponsoring body. For a sponsoring body entitling to one SGT 
only for the school under it, the entitlement of SGT post will be changed from sponsored-
based to school-based. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) Teacher-librarian 
 
A school meeting one of the following conditions is entitled to the provision of one 
additional APSM post for undertaking the duties of a teacher-librarian – 
 
(i) each whole-day primary school with three or more ordinary classes 
(ii) each bi-sessional primary school with 12 or more ordinary classes 
(iii) two bi-sessional primary schools housed in the same premises with a total of 12 or 
more ordinary classes (i.e. the number of a.m. ordinary classes plus the number of p.m. 
ordinary classes) 
 
This teacher-librarian post is a regular post in addition to the normal teaching establishment 
of a school calculated under paragraph A (a) and (b) above. The service of a teacher-
librarian is counted as teaching experience for promotion purposes in aided primary schools. 
A school, upon the provision of this additional post, may deploy a teacher at the PSM rank 
to fill the teacher-librarian post. For appointment as a teacher-librarian, a teacher should 
have a minimum of two years’ teaching experience and preferably the relevant professional 
qualification in librarianship. Upon appointment, a teacher-librarian is required, where 
appropriate, to complete a part-time day-release training course or other professional 
training course organised by the Education Bureau. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(c) Additional Senior Teacher Post of English 
 
An additional Senior Teacher post, to be offset by a post at the rank of APSM, is provided 
to each school that operates six or more classes to provide curriculum leadership in the 
teaching of English to improve co-ordination, planning and methodology. In an aided bi-
sessional primary school with a total of 25 classes or more for both sessions, each session 
is considered as a separate school. The conditions for appointment to the additional post 
are at Appendix 5. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(d)  Primary School Curriculum Leader  
 
With effect from the 2020/21 school year, each primary school, regardless of the number 
of approved classes, is entitled to the provision of a Primary School Curriculum Leader 
post at the PSM rank. (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
35 
(e)  Special Educational Needs Coordinator (SENCO)  
 
Starting from the 2017/18 school year, an additional teaching post at the APSM rank is 
provided by phases in 3 years to each public sector ordinary primary school to facilitate the 
assignment of a designated teacher to take up the role of SENCO to lead, manage and 
coordinate matters relating to special educational needs. Starting from the 2019/20 school 
year, the rank of SENCO in schools with the Learning Support Grant (LSG) meeting the 
specific threshold will be upgraded to the PSM rank. The arrangement of SENCO for 
schools with the LSG not meeting the specific threshold will be the same as that of the 
2017/18 school year. The additional teaching post at the APSM rank will not be included 
in calculation of the number of senior teacher posts in the teaching staff establishment. 
Schools are advised to refer to the relevant circular currently in force for details of the 
provision of SENCO. (updated on 1 September 2019)  
 
(f) Special Educational Needs Support Teacher (SENST) 
 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, schools with the Learning Support Grant (LSG) 
meeting different thresholds will be allowed to exchange/provided with one to three 
additional teaching post(s) at the APSM rank. The title of the teacher assuming the said 
post is SENST. These one to three posts will not be included in calculation of the number 
of senior teacher posts in the teaching staff establishment. Schools are advised to refer to 
the relevant circular currently in force for details of the provision of SENST. (updated on 
1 September 2019) 
 
D. Educational Psychologists 
 
(a) The Education Bureau creates additional educational psychologist (EP) posts in aided 
ordinary schools and invites school sponsoring bodies (SSBs) to apply for these posts under 
the School-based Educational Psychology Service (SBEPS) starting from the 2008/09 
school year. Each EP post awarded to the SSB is employed as a non-teaching specialist staff 
of a base school under its sponsorship to provide SBEPS for schools assigned by the 
Education Bureau and such schools are not limited to those belonging to the same SSB 
operating the base school. 
 
(b) The EP posts created in aided ordinary schools are combined establishment, with the ranks 
of EP I and II. Candidates having fully met the entry requirements for EP I, with at least 3 
years of satisfactory service as an EP II, can be considered for direct appointment to EP I. 
Candidates not fully meeting the above criteria may be appointed as EP II, should they meet 
the entry requirements for this rank. Guides to appointment of EP I and II and conditions 
for promotion of EP are stipulated in Attachment J and K of Appendix 4 respectively, and 
conditions for promotion of EP are stipulated in Appendix 5.  
 
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
E. School-based Speech Therapists 
 
The Education Bureau creates school-based speech therapist posts in aided ordinary schools 
clusters to implement the Enhanced School-based Speech Therapy Service and invites aided 
ordinary schools to implement the provision starting from the 2019/20 school year. Each school-
based speech therapist post awarded is employed as a non-teaching specialist staff of a base school 
to provide school-based speech therapy services for schools assigned by the Education Bureau. 
Guides to appointment of School-based Speech Therapist are stipulated in Attachment L of 
Appendix 4. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
36 
 
F. Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers 
 
The Education Bureau creates additional Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer posts in 
aided ordinary schools and invites aided primary schools to apply for creating these posts starting 
from the 2018/19 school year. Guides to appointment of Primary School Assistant Social Work 
Officer are stipulated in Attachment M of Appendix 4. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
G. School Executive Officers  
 
The Education Bureau creates the school executive officer posts in the approved non-teaching 
staff establishment in aided schools and invite schools to opt for creating these posts starting from 
the 2019/20 school year. Guides to appointment of School Executive Officer are stipulated in 
Attachment N of Appendix 4. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
37 
Appendix 2B 
 
Clerical and Janitor Staff Entitlement 
 
The following scales shall apply in determining the clerical and janitor staff entitlements of a 
school for the purpose of calculating the amount of Administration Grant or the Revised 
Administration Grant Note as appropriate payable to it - 
 
(I)  Clerical staff 
 
(a) 
Bi-sessional schools 
 
No. of classes 
Rank and no. of clerical staff entitled 
 
1 to 3 
Nil 
 
 
4 to 11 
1 Clerical Assistant 
 
 
12 to 23 
1 Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II 
 
 
24 or more 
1 Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II + 1 Clerical Assistant 
 
 
In bi-sessional schools with 25 classes or more, each session will be considered as a 
separate school in the calculation of the clerical staff establishment. 
(b)   
Whole-day Schools 
 
No. of classes 
Rank and no. of clerical staff entitled 
 
1 - 3 
Nil 
 
 
4 - 11 
1 Clerical Assistant 
 
 
12 – 23 
 
1 Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II +  
1 Clerical Assistant 
 
 
24 or more 
1 Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II +  
2 Clerical Assistants 
 
(II) Janitor staff 
 
One janitor staff may be allowed for every four or fraction of four classes and special purpose 
rooms in use for the AM or whole-day session and one janitor staff may be allowed for every 
eight or fraction of eight classes and special purpose rooms in use for the PM session. If the 
total includes a fraction of 0.5 or above, it will be rounded up to next whole number. 
 
 
 
 
 
Note A school that opts for the Revised Administration Grant will pay the salaries of its janitor staff through 
the Revised Administration Grant, amount of which is calculated with reference to the scale at (II) above. 
It will be provided with clerical staff according to the scale at (I) above and pay the actual salaries of its 
clerical staff through the Salaries Grant. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
38 
Appendix 2/Attachment A1 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment 
in Aided Primary Schools Operating Bi-sessional Classes 
 
[The number of posts in the table below includes teachers provided according to the teacher-to-class 
ratio (i.e. Basic Provision) but excludes additional teaching posts provided under specific improvement 
programmes.] 
 
No. of classes* Head (Rank) 
Deputy Head 
(SPSM)@ 
Senior 
Teachers 
(PSM)# 
(excluding 
Deputy Head,
if entitled) 
No. of Class 
Teachers 
(APSM) 
Total No. of 
Staff (including 
Head) 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
11  
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
0  
1  
1  
2  
2  
2  
3  
3  
3  
4 
4  
1  
1  
3  
3  
5  
7  
8  
9  
11  
11  
13  
2  
3  
5  
6  
8  
10  
12  
13  
15  
16  
18  
12  
13  
14  
15  
16  
17  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22  
23  
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1  
1  
1  
1   
1  
1  
2  
2  
2  
2  
2  
2  
4 
4  
4 
5 
5 
5 
5 
5  
6 
6 
6 
7 
13 
15  
16  
17 
18 
20  
20  
22 
22 
24  
25  
26 
19  
21 
22  
24 
25  
27 
28 
30 
31  
33  
34  
36  
24  
25  
26  
27  
28  
29  
30  
31  
32  
33  
34  
35  
36 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3 
3  
3  
3  
3 
6 
6 
7 
7 
8 
8  
8  
9 
9 
9  
10 
10 
11 
27 
29  
29  
31 
31 
33  
34  
35 
36  
38  
38 
40  
40 
37  
39 
40 
42  
43 
45  
46  
48  
49  
51  
52  
54  
55 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
39 
 
*  In a bi-sessional school with 25 classes or more, each session will be considered as a separate 
school in the calculation of the teaching staff establishment. 
 
@ In ordinary primary schools with 12 – 17 classes, one PSM post will be re-ranked to the SPSM 
rank for deputy head; in ordinary primary schools with 18 – 23 classes, two PSM posts will be 
re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads; and in ordinary primary schools with 24 classes 
or more, three PSM posts will be re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads.  
  (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
#  The calculation basis of the number of senior teacher posts is derived from the application of 
teacher-to-class ratio.  The provision of senior teacher posts in bi-sessional primary schools is 
improved from 1 senior teacher post for every 4 classes to 1 senior teacher post for every 4 
teacher posts.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
40 
Appendix 2/Attachment A2 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment 
 in Whole-day Aided Primary Schools 
 
[The number of posts in the table below includes teachers provided according to the teacher-to-class 
ratio (i.e. Basic Provision) but excludes additional teaching posts provided under specific improvement 
programmes.] 
 
No. of classes Head (Rank) 
Deputy Head 
(SPSM)@ 
Senior 
Teachers 
(PSM)# 
(excluding 
Deputy Head, 
if entitled) 
No. of Class 
Teachers 
(APSM) 
Total No. of 
Staff (including 
Head) 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
11  
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
1 (SPSM) 
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
--  
1  
1  
2  
2  
3  
3  
4  
4  
5 
5 
6  
0  
2  
2  
4  
4  
7  
8 
9  
10 
11  
12 
2  
4  
5  
7  
8  
11  
13  
14  
16 
17  
19  
12  
13  
14  
15  
16  
17  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22  
23  
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1 (HMII) 
1  
1  
1  
1   
1  
1  
2  
2  
2  
2  
2  
2  
5  
6  
6 
7  
7  
8 
7  
8  
8  
9  
9  
10 
14  
14  
16  
16  
18  
19  
20  
21  
22  
23  
25 
25 
21  
22 
24  
25  
27  
29  
30  
32  
33  
35  
37  
38  
24  
25  
26  
27  
28  
29  
30  
31  
32  
33  
34  
35  
36 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
1 (HMI) 
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
3  
9  
10  
10 
11  
11 
12  
12  
13  
13  
14 
14 
15  
15 
27  
27  
29  
30  
31  
32  
33  
34  
36  
36 
38  
38 
40 
40 
41  
43  
45  
46  
48  
49  
51  
53  
54  
56  
57  
59 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
41 
 
 
@ In ordinary primary schools with 12 – 17 classes, one PSM post will be re-ranked to the SPSM 
rank for deputy head; in ordinary primary schools with 18 – 23 classes, two PSM posts will be 
re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads; and in ordinary primary schools with 24 classes 
or more, three PSM posts will be re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads. 
  (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
#  The calculation basis of the number of senior teacher posts is derived from the application of 
teacher-to-class ratio.  The provision of senior teacher posts in whole-day primary schools is 
improved from 1 senior teacher post for every 3 classes to 1 senior teacher post for every 3.2 
teacher posts.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
42 
 
Appendix 3 
Salary Scales and Allowances 
 
(This appendix should be read in conjunction with Appendix 4) 
 
(A) 
Salary Scales 
(I)  
The salary scales of teaching staff in each grade and rank are as follows: 
 
Grade/Rank  
 
Salary Scale 
(Points on the Master Pay Scale) 
 
1. 
Headmaster/Headmistress (HM I) 
 
43-46 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
2. 
Headmaster/Headmistress II (HM II) 
 
40-43 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
3. 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress (SPSM) 
 
34-39 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
4. 
Primary School Master/Mistress (PSM) 
 
30-33 
 
5. 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress (APSM) 
 
17-29 if appointed before 
 
 
1.4.2000 
 
 
12-29 if appointed between 
 
 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
 
 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
17-29 if appointed between 
 
 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
 
 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
15-29 if appointed on or 
 
 
after 1.10.2010 
 
 
Untrained APSM will not be allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar as shown below- 
 
 
Date of appointment  
 
Salary Bar 
 
Before 1.4.2000  
 
27 
 
Between 1.4.2000 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive)   
 
22 
 
On or after 1.10.2010  
 
20 
 
Remarks : With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at five pay points above the 
prevailing starting salary and would be adjusted automatically whenever there is a change in the 
starting salary in the future. A serving untrained APSM without a break in service is subject to the 
adjusted salary bar or the highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the appointment 
as APSM, whichever is the higher. 
 
6. 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress (PAM)#  
 
34-39 (* Bar at 36) 
 
7. 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress (SAM)# 
 
30-33C (* Bar at 33) 
(* Passage requires acquisition a Bachelor of Arts 
Degree in Primary Education, or equivalent.)             
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
43 
8. 
Assistant Master/Mistress (AM)@  
 
25-29 
 
 
9. 
Certificated Master/Mistress (CM)@  
 
14-24 if appointed before 
 
 
1.4.2000 
 
 
12-24 if appointed between 
 
 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
 
 
14-24 if appointed on or 
 
 
after 1.8.2007 
 
 
Untrained CM will not be allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar as shown below- 
 
 
Date of appointment  
 
Salary Bar 
 
Between 1.1.1991 and 31.3.2000 (both dates inclusive)  
 
19 
 
Between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive)  
 
17 
 
On or after 1.8.2007  
 
19 
 
Remarks : With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at five pay points above the 
prevailing starting salary and would be adjusted automatically whenever there is a change in the 
starting salary in the future. A serving untrained CM without a break in service is subject to the 
adjusted salary bar or the highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the appointment 
as CM, whichever is the higher. 
 
10. 
Unqualified Teacher (UQT)  
 
4 
 
# No non-degree holders should be appointed as new school heads. Serving heads at AM, SAM 
and PAM rank who are non-degree holders will be accommodated until natural wastage. 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
@ With the full implementation of the all-graduate teaching force policy starting from the 2019/20 
school year, no newly-joined teachers should be appointed as CM, or directly appointed as or 
promoted to AM upon the phasing out of the non-graduate grade. Serving non-graduate teachers 
at CM and AM rank will be accommodated in their current post until natural wastage or regraded 
to the graduate grade. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(II)  
The salary scales of educational psychologists are as follows: 
 
1. 
Educational Psychologist I (EPI) 
34 - 44 
 
 
2. 
Educational Psychologist II (EPII) 
25 - 33 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
20 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
25 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
23 - 33 if appointed on or 
after 1.10.2010 
 
(III) 
The salary scales of School-based Speech Therapist 
18 - 33 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
16 - 33 if appointed on or 
after 1.10.2010 
 
 
(IV) 
The salary scales of Primary School Assistant Social Work 
Officers 
18 - 33 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(*with omitted points at Point 20, 24 and 30) 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
16 - 33 if appointed on or 
after 1.10.2010 
 
(V)  School Executive Officer (Sch ExO)  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
15 - 27 
 
(B) 
Supply Teachers 
 
 
Appointment  
 
Salary per working day 
 
Qualified Teacher  
 
 
 Refer to Revised Daily Rates of Pay for Supply Teachers as 
 
Unqualified Teacher 
announced in Education Bureau Circular currently in force. 
 
(C)    Acting Allowance 
 
A full-time AM who has been recommended and approved to take up the functional duties 
of SPSM, or a full-time HMII/SPSM/PSM/APSM who has been recommended and 
approved to take up the functional duties of HMI/HMII/SPSM/PSM as appropriate on an 
acting basis for a qualifying period of not less than 30 calendar days will be entitled to draw 
an acting allowance for the period concerned as follows- 
 
(a)  In the case of acting-up with replacement (this involves acting in a functional post 
which carries a higher maximum salary point than that of the teacher's substantive 
rank) - 90% of the difference between the teacher's substantive salary and the 
minimum salary of the higher rank in which he is acting; or at a rate equivalent to 
90% of the increment next on the rank-scale of the acting post above the level of the 
teacher's substantive salary if it is the same or more than the minimum salary of the 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
45 
acting post. The rate will be revised to 100% of the difference after the first 180 
calendar days of acting. (Note 10) (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(b)   In the case of doubling-up without replacement provided (this involves acting in a 
headship post which carries a higher maximum salary point than that of the teacher's 
substantive rank in addition to undertaking his own duties) - 23% of the minimum 
salary of the higher rank or 100% of the difference in pay between the teacher’s 
substantive salary and the minimum salary of the higher rank in which he/she is 
acting, whichever is the more. (Note 10) (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
Note : 
1. With the full implementation of the all-graduate teaching force policy from the 2019/20 
school year, the promotion mechanism for the non-graduate grade will cease to operate. In 
other words, no CM or AM could be approved to act up a promotion post in the non-
graduate grade through promotion/selection exercise starting from the 2019/20 school year. 
 
2. The minimum 30-calendar-day qualifying period for acting appointment shall include 
intervening Sundays and public holidays, and Sundays and public holidays immediately 
preceding and following the acting period. However, Sundays and public holidays 
immediately preceding and following the acting period will not be included in calculating 
the acting allowance. 
 
3. School holidays can be counted as qualifying period and attract acting allowances provided 
that the teachers concerned are required to perform duties of the acting posts during the 
holidays. Such qualifying period should be recognised and properly recorded by school. 
 
4. The qualifying period may include up to a maximum of 3 consecutive days’ leave or 
absence in total (excluding sick leave and absence for authorised training and duty) taken 
during the acting period. Leave and absence in excess of 3 consecutive days will not be 
counted as part of the qualifying period. 
 
5. Leave exceeding 3 consecutive working days involves the forfeiture of acting allowance 
for the whole period of the acting staff’s leave (i.e. leave and intervening public holidays 
and Sundays). (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
6. When a teacher acts in different ranks consecutively, each acting appointment should be 
counted individually and separately and cannot be aggregated for the purpose of meeting 
the minimum qualifying period for acting allowances. 
 
7. A teacher can only draw one acting allowance at any one time, and schools should not make 
concurrent multiple acting appointments. 
 
8. Acting appointments can be made on operational grounds even if no acting allowance is 
payable. 
 
9. All allowances will be treated as salary for Provident Fund purposes. 
 
10. The rate of acting allowance takes effect on 1 September 2004. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
46 
 
Appendix 4 
 
Qualifications Required for Grades of Appointment 
in Aided Primary Schools 
 
1. 
The guides to appointment in respect of the grades/ranks Headmaster/Mistress I, 
Headmaster/Mistress II, Senior Primary School Master/Mistress, Primary School 
Master/Mistress, Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress, 
Principal Assistant 
Master/Mistress, Senior Assistant Master/Mistress, Assistant Master/Mistress, Certificated 
Master/Mistress, Educational Psychologist I, Educational Psychologist II, School-based 
Speech Therapist, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer and School Executive 
Officer are shown in Attachments A to N. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
With effect from 2004/05 school year, aspiring principals are required to attain the 
Certification for Principalship in addition to complying with the appointment conditions in 
force at the time before they could be considered for appointment to principalship. 
 
3. 
With effect from the 2019/20 school year, all teaching posts on the approved establishment 
of aided schools are graduate teacher posts, including additional teaching posts that are 
provided for schools under various measures. Newly-joined teachers (including those with a 
break of service exceeding one year) should possess a local bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) 
and satisfy all the entry requirements and standing conditions in force at the time before they 
could be considered for appointment to the graduate teacher posts. Serving non-graduate 
teachers at CM, AM, SAM and PAM rank will be accommodated in their current posts until 
natural wastage or regraded to the corresponding rank in the graduate grade. 
 
4. 
Starting from the 2022/23 school year, newly-appointed regular teachers and monthly-paid 
temporary teachers in public sector schools are required to pass the Basic Law Test in order 
to be considered for appointment. Starting from the 2023/24 school year, the test covers the 
Basic Law and the National Security Law. Apart from regular teachers, newly-appointed 
teachers remunerated with cash grant are also required to obtain a pass in the Basic Law and 
National Security Law Test. The requirement applies to all ranks of the teacher grade 
(including principals). The requirement is not applicable to teachers such as daily-rated 
supply teachers and teachers employed under the Native-speaking English Teacher Scheme 
in public sector schools. (updated on 1 September 2023) 
 
5. 
The guide to appointment in respect of clerical staff is shown at Attachment O. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
47 
Appendix 4/Attachment A 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Headmaster/Headmistress I 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
 
(i) 
Promotion 
- 
promotion 
rank 
for 
Headmaster/Headmistress II. 
 
 
 
(ii) 
Regrading 
- 
A 
Principal 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress# serving in the nominating 
primary school with a local first degree is eligible 
for 
consideration 
for 
regrading 
as 
Headmaster/Headmistress I. 
 
 
 
(b) Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
 
 
(i) 
Candidates should have fulfilled all requirements 
for normal promotion to this rank. The School 
Management 
Committee 
must 
submit 
justifications for the exceptional nature of the 
proposed appointment for which the Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to approve 
or 
reject 
having 
regard 
to 
the 
special 
circumstances. 
 
(ii) 
Starting from the 2000/01 school year, new 
school heads should be limited to candidates 
holding a local first degree plus teacher training 
in 
primary 
education, 
or 
equivalent 
qualifications. 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Head of a primary school with 24 classes or more. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 43-46 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Nil 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
(a) The salary scale and incremental date of a 
Headmaster/Headmistress I regraded from the rank of 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress will be determined 
as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
48 
 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, his/her pay is 
less than the minimum of the pay scale of the new 
office, he/she will receive the minimum. The new 
incremental date will be determined by the date 
of regrading; 
 
 
 
(ii) If his/her pay is the same or more than the 
minimum and not more than the maximum of the 
pay scale of the new office, he/she will receive 
the salary point which is equivalent to his/her 
existing substantive salary. The new incremental 
date will be determined by the date of regrading; 
 
 
 
(iii) If he/she is regraded on his/her incremental date, 
for the purpose of these rules, his/her pay before 
regrading will be taken to be the pay he/she 
would have received on that date had he/she not 
been regraded; and 
 
 
 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or between the 1st 
and the 15th day of the month, the incremental 
date will be taken to be the first day of that month. 
If the resultant date falls on or between the 16th 
day and the end of the month, the incremental 
date will be taken to be the first day of the 
following month. 
 
(b) With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a school 
head appointed by direct appointment to a head post 
in another aided school at the same substantive rank 
of his/her former head post without a break is allowed 
to retain the salary pay point he/she received in the 
former post; if there is a break in service, he/she 
should be remunerated at the minimum point of the 
pay scale for the rank. 
 
#The PAM rank will be phased out through natural wastage. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
49 
Appendix 4/Attachment B 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
   
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
 
 
 
(i)  Promotion - promotion rank for Senior Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress 
or Primary School 
Master/Mistress. 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
 
 
(ii) Regrading – A Senior Assistant Master/Mistress# 
serving in the nominating primary school with a 
local first degree or equivalent is eligible for 
consideration 
for 
regrading 
as 
Headmaster/Headmistress II. 
 
 
 
(b) Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
 
 
(i) 
Candidates should have fulfilled all requirements 
for normal promotion to this rank. The School 
Management 
Committee 
must 
submit 
justifications for the exceptional nature of the 
proposed appointment for which the Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to approve or 
reject having regard to the special circumstances. 
 
(ii) 
Starting from the 2000/01 school year, new school 
heads should be limited to candidates holding a 
local first degree plus teacher training in primary 
education, or equivalent qualifications. 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Head of a primary school with 12 to 23 classes. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 40-43 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Headmaster/Headmistress I. 
 
A Headmaster/Headmistress II will be eligible for 
consideration for promotion to Headmaster/Headmistress 
I after he/she has served successfully as follows in a primary 
school for at least 3 years: 
 
 
Either 
 
 
 
(i) 
as a Headmaster/Headmistress II; 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
50 
 
Or 
 
 
 
(ii) 
as a Senior Assistant Master/Mistress and then as a 
Headmaster/Headmistress II. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
(a)   In the case of promotion to Headmaster/Headmistress I, 
as the salary scale of a Headmaster/Headmistress 
II overlaps that of a Headmaster/Headmistress I (MPS 
Pt 43-46), the promotees’ salary scale and incremental 
date will be determined as follows: 
 
(i) 
If their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher office 
by more than one point, they will enter at the 
minimum and their new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of their promotion; 
 
(ii) If their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher office 
by not more than one point, they will enter at the 
minimum and retain their existing incremental 
date; and 
 
(iii) If the promotees are already receiving the 
maximum pay of their former office at the date of 
promotion, they will enter the new scale at the 
point next above their pay and their new 
incremental date will be determined by the date of 
promotion. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
(b) 
The 
salary 
scale 
and 
incremental 
date 
of 
Headmaster/Headmistress II regraded from the rank of 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress will be determined as 
follows: 
 
 
 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, his/her pay is less 
than the minimum of the pay scale of the new 
office, he/she will receive the minimum. The new 
incremental date will be determined by the date of 
regrading;  
 
 
(ii) If his/her pay is the same or more than the 
minimum and not more than the maximum of the 
pay scale of the new office, he/she will receive the 
salary point which is equivalent to his/her existing 
substantive salary. The new incremental date will 
be determined by the date of regrading;  
 
 
 
(iii) If he/she is regraded on his/her incremental date, 
for the purpose of these rules, his/her pay before 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
51 
regrading will be taken to be the pay he/she would 
have received on that date had he/she not been 
regraded; and 
 
 
 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or between the 1st 
and the 15th day of the month, the incremental 
date will be taken to be the first day of that month. 
If the resultant date falls on or between the 16th 
day and the end of the month, the incremental date 
will be taken to be the first day of the following 
month. 
 
 
(c) With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a school head 
appointed by direct appointment to a head post in 
another aided school at the same substantive rank of 
his/her former head post without a break is allowed to 
retain the salary pay point he/she received in the former 
post; if there is a break in service, he/she should be 
remunerated at the minimum point of the pay scale for 
the rank. 
 
#The SAM rank will be phased out through natural wastage.  
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
52 
Appendix 4/Attachment C 
(with effect from 1 September 2008) 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
I. Head and Deputy Head 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
 
Promotion rank for  
 
(i) Primary School Master/Mistress, and 
 
 
 
(ii)  Assistant Master/Mistress with a local first degree 
or equivalent.  
 
 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
 
 
(i) Candidates should possess a local first degree plus 
teacher training in primary education, or 
equivalent qualifications. They should also meet 
the teaching experience requirement and complete 
training course(s) specified by or acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary for normal promotion to this 
rank. The School Management Committee must 
submit justifications for the exceptional nature of 
the proposed appointment for which the 
Permanent Secretary will have discretion either to 
approve or reject having regard to the special 
circumstances. 
 
(ii) Starting from the 2000/01 school year, new school 
heads and deputy heads should be limited to 
candidates holding a local first degree plus teacher 
training in primary education, or equivalent 
qualifications. 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
(a) Head of a primary school with 11 or less classes; OR  
 
(b) Deputy head of a primary school with 12 or more classes, 
in addition to class teaching. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 34-39 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
53 
 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
 
A Senior Primary School Master/Mistress will be eligible for 
consideration for promotion to Headmaster/Headmistress 
II after he/she has served successfully as follows in a 
primary school for at least 5 years: 
 
 
 
Either 
 
 
 
(i) 
as a Senior Primary School Master/Mistress; 
 
 
 
Or 
 
 
 
(ii) 
as an Assistant Master/Mistress/Primary School 
Master/Mistress and then as a Senior Primary School 
Master/Mistress. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
With effect from 2004/05 school year, aspiring principals are 
required to attain the Certification for Principalship in 
addition to complying with the appointment conditions in 
force at the time before they could be considered for 
appointment to principalship. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
54 
Appendix 4/Attachment D1 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
I. Senior Teacher 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
requirements 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
 
(i) Promotion - promotion rank for Assistant Primary 
School Master/Mistress. 
 
 
 
(ii) Regrading 
– 
An Assistant 
Master/Mistress 
[including AM(SGT)] serving in the nominating 
primary school with a local first degree is eligible 
for consideration for regrading as Primary School 
Master/Mistress. 
 
 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
 
 
Candidates should possess a local first degree plus 
teacher training in primary education, or equivalent 
qualifications. They should also meet the teaching 
experience requirement and complete training course(s) 
specified by or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary 
set for normal promotion to this rank. The School 
Management Committee must submit justifications for 
the exceptional nature of the proposed appointment for 
which the Permanent Secretary will have discretion 
either to approve or reject having regard to the special 
circumstances. 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Senior Teacher with the following duties: 
 
(a) Assist the school head and deputy head in guiding the work 
in various functional areas in order to take forward 
education initiatives in the primary school; 
(b) Take the lead in diversified professional duties; 
(c) Undertake class teaching; and  
(d) Perform other related duties as assigned by the school. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 30-33 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress or 
Headmaster/Headmistress II. 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
55 
 
(a)  Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
A Primary School Master/Mistress will be eligible for 
consideration for promotion to Senior Primary School 
Master/Mistress after he/she has served successfully as 
a Senior Teacher in a primary school for at least 2 years, 
and undertaken training course(s) specified by or 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
 
(b)  Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
 
A Primary School Master/Mistress will be eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion 
to 
Headmaster/Headmistress II after he/she has served 
successfully as follows in a primary school for at least 5 
years: 
 
Either 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
as a Primary School Master/Mistress; 
 
or 
 
(ii) as an Assistant Master/Mistress and then as a 
Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
 
    (updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
With effect from 2004/05 school year, aspiring 
principals are required to attain the Certification for 
Principalship in addition to complying with the 
appointment conditions in force at the time before they 
could be considered for appointment to principalship.  
 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
A Primary School Masters/Mistresses regraded from the rank 
of Assistant Master/Mistress will enter at the minimum of the 
Primary School Master/Mistress pay scale with his/her new 
incremental date determined by the date of his/her regrading. 
If the date of regrading falls on or between the 1st and the 15th 
day of the month, the incremental date will be taken to be the 
first day of that month. If the date of regrading falls on or 
between the 16th day and the end of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the first day of the 
following month. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2008)  
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
56 
Appendix 4/Attachment D2 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
II. Student Guidance Teacher 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) 
(i) Normally – Regrading  
 
A serving Assistant Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) with a local first degree or equivalent is eligible 
for consideration for regrading as Primary School 
Master/Mistress (Student Guidance Teacher) under 
sponsor-based entitlement. (only applicable for student 
guidance teachers who were appointed before the 
2019/20 school year without a break of service for more 
than one year) 
 
(ii) Normally – Acting  
 
The School Management Committee may appoint a 
Primary School Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) on acting capacity. Candidates should have 
completed the necessary training, which refers to the Pre-
service Training Course for Student Guidance Teachers 
conducted by the former Education Department or the 
Education Bureau, or the Certificate Course on Student 
Guidance for Teachers of Primary Schools conducted by 
a local tertiary institute or its equivalent, and have served 
successfully as follows in government/aided primary 
school(s) for at least three years: 
 
Either 
 
(i) as 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress; 
 
Or 
 
(ii) as a Certificated Master/Mistress and then as an 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
The teacher would have to gain five years’ teaching 
experience, at least two of which as a Student Guidance 
Teacher, before being promoted. 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
57 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
 
 
(i) Candidates should possess a local first degree plus 
teacher training in primary education, or equivalent 
qualifications. They should also have completed 
successfully the necessary training in student 
guidance and should possess no less than five years’ 
teaching experience in government/aided primary 
school(s), with at least two of which as Student 
Guidance Teachers. Necessary training refers to the 
Pre-service Training Course for Student Guidance 
Teachers conducted by the former Education 
Department or the existing Education Bureau, or the 
Certificate Course on Student Guidance for Teachers 
of Primary Schools conducted by a local tertiary 
institute or its equivalent. 
 
(ii) The School Management Committee must submit 
justifications for the exceptional nature of the 
proposed 
appointment, 
which 
the 
Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to approve or 
reject, having regard to the special circumstances. 
 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
In addition to the existing duties in his/her serving primary 
school(s), a Primary School Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) is expected to assist his/her sponsoring body in the 
following areas :  
 
(i) 
Overall coordination of student guidance service and the 
implementation of the Comprehensive Student Guidance 
Service; 
(ii) Co-ordination of staff development for Student Guidance 
Teachers; 
(iii) Mobilisation of community resources in the delivery of 
student guidance service among its primary schools; 
(iv)  Overall evaluation of the student guidance service; 
(v)  Identification and sharing of good practices among 
Student Guidance Teachers. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 30-33 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Nil 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
(a)  The entitlement and appointment of these posts are 
considered separately under the same sponsoring body. 
 
(b)  A Primary School Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) 
regraded 
from 
the 
rank 
of Assistant 
Master/Mistress (Student Guidance Teacher) will enter at 
the minimum of the Primary School Master/Mistress pay 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
58 
scale with his/her new incremental date determined by the 
date of regrading. If the date of regrading falls on or 
between the 1st and the 15th day of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the first day of that 
month. If the date of regrading falls on or between the 
16th day and the end of the month, the incremental date 
will be taken to be the first day of the following month. 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019)  
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
59 
Appendix 4/Attachment E 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. Appointment  
New Recruitment 
requirements 
(a) 
Candidates should possess a local first degree plus 
teacher training in primary education, or equivalent 
qualifications. 
 
(b) 
Regrading Serving Teachers 
 
A Certificated Master/Mistress serving in the 
nominating primary school with a local first degree is 
eligible for consideration for regrading as Assistant 
Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
2. Type of work 
Mainly deployed to perform the following duties: 
 
(a) Coordinate and discharge diversified professional duties; 
(b) Undertake class teaching; and 
(c) Perform other related duties as assigned by the school. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
3. Pay scale  
(a) 
MPS Point 17-29 for those appointed before 1.4.2000  
  
(b) 
MPS Point 12-29 for those appointed between 1.4.2000 
and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
  
(c) 
MPS Point 17-29 for those appointed between 1.8.2007 
and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
  
(d) 
MPS Point 15-29 for those appointed on or after 
1.10.2010 
 
 
 
Note:  Untrained Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
will not be allowed to proceed beyond a salary bar as specified 
below: 
 
  
(a) 
Bar at MPS Point 27 for those appointed before 
1.4.2000 
  
(b) 
Bar at MPS Point 22 for those appointed between
1.4.2000 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
  
(c) 
Bar at MPS Point 20 for those appointed on or after
1.10.2010 
 
  
With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at five 
pay points above the prevailing starting salary and would be 
adjusted automatically whenever there is a change in the 
starting salary in the future. A serving untrained APSM without 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
60 
a break in service is subject to the adjusted salary bar or the 
highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as APSM, whichever is the higher. 
 
4. Period of probation  
2 years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. Promotion prospects  
Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
 
 
An Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress possessing a 
Post-graduate Diploma/Certificate in Education, or a teacher's 
certificate from a Hong Kong College of Education/the Hong 
Kong Institute of Education, or equivalent will be eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion 
to 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress after he/she has served successfully as follows 
in a primary school for at least 5 years and undertaken training 
courses(s) specified by or acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary: 
 
 
 
Either 
 
  
(i) 
as an Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress; 
 
  
Or 
 
  
(ii)  
as a Certificated Master/Mistress and then as an 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
6. Any other remarks         (a) 
Candidates 
without 
a 
Post-graduate 
Diploma/Certificate in Education, or a teacher's 
certificate from a Hong Kong College of Education/the 
Hong Kong Institute of Education, or equivalent will 
enter at the minimum of the pay scale on appointment. 
 
  
(b)  
Candidates who also possess an appropriate Post-
graduate Diploma/Certificate in Education, or a 
teacher's certificate from a Hong Kong College of 
Education/the Hong Kong Institute of Education, or 
equivalent will enter at the third point in the pay scale 
on appointment. 
 
  
(c) 
Starting from 21 February 2002, the arrangement for 
the salary bar of a serving untrained teacher upon 
his/her regrading from a non-graduate rank to the rank 
of Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress, is as 
follows – 
 
  
 
(i) 
If the pay point of the teacher concerned on 
appointment to the rank of Assistant Primary 
School Master/Mistress is below the prevailing 
salary bar of his/her new post, he/she can 
progress along the respective pay scale to the 
new salary bar point. Subject to the acquisition 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
61 
of acceptable teacher training qualification, 
he/she can proceed beyond the appropriate 
salary bar point to the maximum of the 
respective pay scale; and 
 
  
 
(ii) 
If the pay point of the teacher concerned on 
appointment to the rank of Assistant Primary 
School Master/Mistress is at or above the 
prevailing salary bar of his/her new post (due to, 
for example, the retention of his/her existing 
pay in the former non-graduate post under the 
special pay on appointment arrangements), 
his/her salary will be frozen at that pay point. 
Progression beyond the frozen pay point is 
subject to his/her acquisition of acceptable 
teacher training qualification, provided that the 
maximum of the respective pay scale is not 
exceeded. 
 
  
(d) 
A serving Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
who acquires a Post-graduate Diploma/Certificate in 
Education, or a teacher's certificate from a Hong Kong 
College of Education/the Hong Kong Institute of 
Education, or equivalent after pursuing a full-time or 
part-time course will be awarded two additional 
increments if he/she entered at the first point in 
accordance with paragraph 6(a) or has not been 
previously awarded additional increments on the 
strength of such, provided that the maximum of the 
salary scale is not exceeded. However, with effect from 
1 September 2003, an untrained teacher regraded from 
Certificated Master/Mistress to Assistant Primary 
School Masters/Mistresses, who subsequently acquires 
acceptable teacher training qualification, will – 
 
(i) 
be eligible for the award of two additional 
increments if, other than through possession of 
recognized experience, he/she entered at the 
minimum point of the Assistant Primary School 
Masters/Mistresses pay scale prevailing at the 
time he/she was regraded, provided that the 
maximum of the pay scale is not exceeded; or 
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
(ii) 
be eligible for the award of one additional 
increment if, other than through possession of 
recognized experience, he/she entered at one 
point above the minimum point of the Assistant 
Primary School Masters/Mistresses pay scale 
prevailing at the time he/she was regraded, 
provided that the maximum of the pay scale is 
not exceeded; or (updated on 1 November 2013) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
62 
(iii) 
not be eligible for the award of any additional 
increment if, other than through possession of 
recognized experience, he/she entered at two or 
more points above the minimum point of the 
Assistant Primary School Masters/Mistresses 
pay scale prevailing at the time he/she was 
regraded. (updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
  
(e) 
The salary scale and incremental date of an Assistant 
Primary School Masters/Mistresses regraded from the 
rank 
of 
Certificated 
Master/Mistress 
will 
be 
determined as follows: 
 
  
 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, his/her pay is 
less than the minimum of the pay scale of the 
new office, he/she will receive the minimum. 
The new incremental date will be determined by 
the date of regrading.  
 
  
 
(ii) 
If his/her pay is the same or more than the 
minimum and not more than the maximum of 
the pay scale of the new office, he/she will 
continue to receive his/her existing pay in the 
former post. The new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of regrading;  
 
  
 
(iii) 
If he/she is regraded on his/her incremental date, 
for the purpose of these rules, his/her pay before 
regrading will be taken to be the pay he/she 
would have received on that date had he/she not 
been regraded; and  
 
  
 
(iv) 
If the date of regrading falls on or between the 
1st and the 15th day of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the first day 
of that month. If the date of regrading falls on 
or between the 16th day and the end of the 
month, the incremental date will be taken to be 
the first day of the following month. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
63 
Appendix 4/Attachment F 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
N.A. 
(Note : Starting from the 2000/01 school year, no non-degree 
holders should be appointed as new school heads. Serving 
heads at PAM rank who are non-degree holders will be 
accommodated until natural wastage.) 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Head of a primary school with 24 classes or more. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale  
MPS Point 34-39  
(Bar at MPS Point 36, the passage of which requires acquiring 
a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Primary Education, or equivalent) 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
N.A. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Nil 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
Nil 
 
(updated on 1 September 2008)  
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
64 
Appendix 4/Attachment G 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
N.A 
(Note : Starting from the 2000/01 school year, no non-degree 
holders should be appointed as new school heads. Serving 
heads at SAM rank who are non-degree holders will be 
accommodated until natural wastage.) 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Head of a primary school with 12-23 classes. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale  
MPS Point 30-33C 
(Bar at MPS Point 33, the passage of which requires acquiring 
a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Primary Education, or equivalent) 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
N.A. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Refer to Any other remarks below 
 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
A serving Senior Assistant Master/Mistress with local first 
degree or equivalent qualifications is allowed to compete with 
Headmaster/Headmistress II for promotion to the next higher 
rank in the school or in schools operated by the same sponsoring 
body.  
 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
65 
Appendix 4/Attachment H1 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Assistant Master/Mistress 
I. Senior Teacher 
 
 (For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) 
Normally – Promotion 
 
Promotion rank for Certificated Master/Mistress. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, no 
Certificated Master/Mistress should be promoted to 
Assistant Master/Mistress, except those who have been 
selected for acting up the post through a promotion 
exercise before the 2019/20 school year. Serving 
Assistant Master/Mistress will be accommodated until 
natural wastage or regraded to the graduate grade.) 
 
 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct entry 
 
 
 
N.A. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, teachers 
cannot be directly appointed to fill a non-graduate post 
at the promotion rank, except for the redeployment of 
teacher from one school to another under the same 
school sponsoring body.) 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
Senior Teacher in a primary school with duties in addition to 
class teaching. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale 
MPS Point 25-29 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
Two years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
An Assistant Master/Mistress with a local first degree or 
equivalent qualification will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion to Senior Primary School Master/Mistress after 
he/she has served successfully for at least 2 years as an 
Assistant Master/Mistress in a primary school and undertaken 
training course(s) specified by or acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
  
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
66 
Appendix 4/Attachment H2 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Assistant Master/Mistress 
II. Student Guidance Teacher 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
N.A. 
(Note:  
(i) 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, teachers cannot 
be directly appointed to fill a non-graduate post at the 
promotion 
rank, 
including 
the 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress (Student Guidance Teacher) post. 
(ii) 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, newly-joined 
Student Guidance Teachers (including Student 
Guidance Teachers with a break of service exceeding 
one year) should possess a local bachelor’s degree (or 
equivalent) and satisfy all the entry requirements and 
standing conditions set out for Primary School 
Master/Mistress (Student Guidance Teacher). 
(iii) 
Serving 
Assistant 
Masters/Mistresses 
(Student 
Guidance Teacher) will be accommodated in their 
current post of their serving schools, or take up an 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress 
(Student 
Guidance 
Teacher) post in another aided school operated by the 
same school sponsoring body through redeployment 
until they leave the service because of natural wastage 
or obtain the required qualifications and choose to be 
regraded to the graduate grade.) 
 
2. 
Type of work 
An Assistant Master/Mistress (Student Guidance Teacher) 
helps to coordinate the service of a school-based guidance 
team and to implement the Comprehensive Student Guidance 
Service including formulating a student guidance policy, 
promoting the personal growth education, providing 
responsive service to students and supportive service to 
parents and teachers. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale  
MPS Point 25-29 
 
 
4. 
Period of probation 
Two years for direct entrants. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Refer to Any other remarks below. 
 
 
6.   Any other remarks 
(a) A serving Assistant Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) with a local first degree or equivalent is eligible 
for consideration for regrading as Primary School 
Master/Mistress under school-based entitlement or 
Primary School Master/Mistress (Student Guidance 
Teacher) under sponsor-based entitlement.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
67 
 
(b) An Assistant 
Master/Mistress 
(Student 
Guidance 
Teacher) under school-based entitlement with a local first 
degree or equivalent qualification will be eligible for 
consideration together with other eligible senior teachers 
in the school for promotion to Senior Primary School 
Master/Mistress after he/she has served successfully for 
at least 2 years as an Assistant Master/Mistress in a 
primary school and undertaken training course(s) 
specified by or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
68 
Appendix 4/Attachment I 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Certificated Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Appointment  
 
requirements 
(a) 
Certificate in Primary Education from the Hong Kong 
Institute of Education/Teacher's Certificate from a 
College of education in Hong Kong obtained after a 3-
year full-time training course or an equivalent 
qualification; or 
 
(b) 
A non-standard qualification acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary 
 
(Note:  
(i) 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, all newly-joined 
teachers should possess a local bachelor’s degree (or 
equivalent). No non-degree holders could be appointed 
as new teachers. 
(ii) 
Serving 
Certificated 
Master/Mistress 
will 
be 
accommodated until natural wastage or regraded to the 
graduate grade.) 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 
2. 
Type of work 
(a) 
Class teacher in an aided primary school; and 
 
 
 
(b) 
Other duties as the Head of the school may require. 
 
 
3. 
Pay scale  
Basic scale 
(a) 
MPS Point 14-24 for those appointed before 1.4.2000 
(b) 
MPS Point 12-24 for those appointed between 1.4.2000 
and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
(c)  MPS Point 14-24 for those appointed on or after 
1.8.2007 
 
 
Note: Untrained Certificated Master/Mistress will not be 
allowed to proceed beyond a salary bar as specified below: 
(a) 
Bar at MPS Point 19 for those appointed between 
1.1.1999 and 31.3.2000 (both dates inclusive) 
(b) 
Bar at MPS Point 17 for those appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
(c) 
Bar at MPS Point 19 for those appointed on or after 
1.8.2007 
 
With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at five 
pay points above the prevailing starting salary and would be 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
69 
adjusted automatically whenever there is a change in the 
starting salary in the future. A serving untrained CM without a 
break in service is subject to the adjusted salary bar or the 
highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as CM, whichever is the higher.  
 
4. 
Period of probation 
Two years. 
 
 
5. 
Promotion prospects 
Assistant Master/Mistress. 
 
A Certificated Master/Mistress with: 
 
(a)  Certificate in Primary Education from the Hong Kong 
Institute of Education/Teacher's Certificate from a 
College of Education in Hong Kong obtained after a 
three-year full-time training course or an equivalent 
qualification; or  
 
(b)  the status of qualified teacher awarded after passing the 
Non-Graduate Teacher Qualifications Assessment 
(NGTQA) and the successful completion of an In-
service Course of Training for Teachers in Primary 
Schools or a period of supervised teaching for at least 
one year; or 
 
(c)  equivalent qualifications  
 
will be eligible for consideration for promotion to 
Assistant Master/Mistress after he/she has served 
successfully as a Certificated Master/Mistress in a 
primary school for at least 5 years and undertaken 
training course(s) specified by or acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary. Certificated Masters/Mistresses 
not possessing teacher training or an equivalent 
qualification but appointed prior to 1 January 1991 will 
be eligible for consideration for promotion to Assistant 
Master/Mistress. 
 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, the promotion 
mechanism for the non-graduate grade would cease to 
operate, except those who have been selected for acting up a 
higher rank through a promotion exercise before the 2019/20 
school year.) 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
6. 
Any other remarks 
(a) 
Direct entrants with non-standard qualifications will be 
appointed to a point, or sub-point, of the salary scale 
considered appropriate by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
(b) 
A salary bar is specified in paragraph 3 above, beyond 
which untrained teachers will not be allowed to proceed. 
Other than those holders of qualifications acquired 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
70 
through the Non-Graduate Teacher Qualifications 
Assessment 
(NGTQA), 
serving 
Certificated 
Masters/Mistresses who are appointed at a sub-point of 
the scale without teacher training and who successfully 
undertake a part-time In-Service Course of Teacher 
Training may be awarded an additional increment if 
they are not already at the top of the basic scale. 
 
 
(c) 
For appointment as Certificated Master/Mistress in 
aided primary schools, a holder of the following 
qualifications acquired through the NGTQA is regarded 
as having a non-standard qualification acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary: 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)  An Assessment Certificate (Primary Level) issued 
by the Education Bureau certifying the holder 
having passed Part I and Part II of the NGTQA;  
or 
 
 
 
(ii) An Assessment Certificate (Primary Level) issued 
by the Education Bureau certifying the holder 
having passed Part I, Part II and Part III of the 
NGTQA. 
 
 
 
(d) Starting from 1 August 2007, holders of the above non-
standard qualification acquired through the NGTQA in 
paragraph 6(c)(i) or (ii) above will enter at MPS Point 
12 upon appointment in an aided primary school. 
Teachers holding the qualification specified in 
paragraph 6(c)(i) above shall be allowed to proceed 
beyond 
MPS 
Point 
19 
of 
the 
Certificated 
Master/Mistress pay scale upon successful completion 
of an In-service Course of Training for Teachers in 
Primary School in a College of Education/the Hong 
Kong Institute of Education. No additional increment 
will be awarded for the successful completion of the In-
service Course of Training for Teachers in Primary 
School. Teachers holding the qualification specified in 
paragraph 6(c)(ii) above shall be allowed to proceed 
beyond 
MPS 
Point 
19 
of 
the 
Certificated 
Master/Mistress pay scale after having successfully 
completed a period of supervised teaching for at least 
one year in a primary school or the primary section of a 
special school. An additional salary increment will be 
awarded to such teachers after successfully completing 
the supervised teaching period. No Additional 
increment will be awarded to such teachers for 
subsequent completion of an In-service Course of 
Training for Teachers in Primary School. 
 
 
 
(e)  With effect from 1.9.2006, untrained teachers with 
specified 
non-standard 
qualifications 
(such 
as 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
71 
Approved 
Post-secondary 
Secondary 
College 
diplomas) will not be accepted for new appointment or 
reappointment as CM after a break in service. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
72 
Appendix 4/Attachment J 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Educational Psychologist I 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience  
 
for Appointment : 
Candidates should have : 
 
(a) 
a first degree in Psychology from a local 
university or equivalent; 
 
(b) 
a Master’s or Doctoral degree in Educational 
Psychology (Professional Practice) from a local 
university or equivalent; 
 
(c) 
a Post Graduate Certificate in Education from a 
local university or equivalent; 
 
(d) 
obtained full membership of the Division of 
Educational Psychology of the Hong Kong 
Psychological Society or an equivalent status in 
an internationally recognised professional 
organization 
of 
Educational 
Psychology 
(applicable to those appointed on or after 
1.9.2012);  
 
(e) 
a minimum of 6 years’ relevant post-degree 
experience of which at least 3 years should be 
as an Educational Psychologist; 
 
(f) 
good command of Cantonese and written 
Chinese; and 
 
(g) 
good command of spoken and written English. 
2. 
Duties : 
Educational Psychologists provide comprehensive 
services to schools at the following target levels: 
 
(a) 
Student support level 
• 
To provide assessment, counseling and 
guidance services for students; 
• 
To provide intervention or behavioural 
guidance programmes for students directly 
and/or in 
collaboration with 
school 
personnel such as teachers, school social 
workers 
and/or 
school-based 
speech 
therapists, etc.; and  
• 
To promote home-school co-operation in 
child management and deliver parent 
training programmes in collaboration with 
school personnel.  
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
73 
(b) Teacher support level 
• 
To 
support 
teachers 
in 
the 
early 
identification of at risk students as well as 
the planning and implementation of 
appropriate intervention measures for 
them; 
• 
To advise teachers on measures to enhance 
learning and teaching effectiveness as well 
as behaviour support, including the 
formulation of individual education plans 
for the students; 
• 
To advise teachers and school social 
workers in planning and implementing 
school-based 
psycho-educational 
programmes for students; 
• 
To support teachers in school-based action 
research related to the domains of student 
support as well as learning and teaching; 
and  
• 
To conduct staff development training to 
equip school personnel with the necessary 
professional knowledge and skills to meet 
the personal, social and special educational 
needs of students. 
 
(c) 
School system level 
• 
To support schools in developing whole-
school policies to cater for student 
diversity; 
• 
To support schools in developing effective 
mechanism to meet the diverse educational 
needs of their students;  
• 
To support schools in developing policy 
and mechanism on crisis management and 
to render crisis management service to 
schools whenever necessary. 
 
Educational Psychologist I also leads the planning, 
execution, management and evaluation of the 
Educational Psychology Service as well as provides 
support to Educational Psychologist II, where 
appropriate. 
3. 
Salary Scale : 
MPS Point 34 - 44 
4. 
Period of Probation : 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects : 
Nil 
6. 
Any Other Remarks : 
(a) 
Holders of degrees other than those from a local 
university or equivalent may apply, but should 
attach copies of transcripts of studies to their 
applications. 
 
(b) 
The candidate must be eligible for graduate 
membership of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society or the British Psychological Society or 
equivalent. The Master’s or Doctoral Degree in 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
74 
Educational Psychology (Professional Practice) 
obtained must be one which can prepare the 
candidate for independent professional work as 
an educational psychologist. 
 
(c) 
The requirement for a candidate to obtain full 
membership of the Division of Educational 
Psychology of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society or an equivalent status in an 
internationally 
recognised 
professional 
organization of Educational Psychology in Para 
1(d) is also applicable to the existing 
educational psychologist incumbents who take 
up a new appointment in another school as 
Educational Psychologist I on or after 1.9.2012. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
75 
Appendix 4/Attachment K 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Educational Psychologist II 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience  
 
for Appointment : 
Candidates should have : 
 
(a) 
a first degree in Psychology from a local 
university or equivalent; 
 
(b) 
a Master’s or Doctoral degree in Educational 
Psychology (Professional Practice) from a local 
university or equivalent; 
 
(c) 
obtained full membership of the Division of 
Educational Psychology of the Hong Kong 
Psychological Society or an equivalent status in 
an internationally recognised professional 
organization of Educational Psychology or been 
eligible for such membership. Candidate so 
eligible shall obtain such full membership 
within nine months after appointment
＊. (This 
requirement is applicable to those appointed as 
Educational Psychologist II on or after 1.9.2012 
and the existing educational psychologist 
incumbents who take up a new appointment in 
another school as Educational Psychologist 
II on or after 1.9.2012); 
 
(d) 
good command of Cantonese and written 
Chinese; and 
 
(e) 
good command of spoken and written English. 
2. 
Duties : 
Educational Psychologists provide comprehensive 
services to schools at the following target levels : 
 
(a) 
Student support level  
• To provide assessment, counseling and 
guidance services for students; 
• To provide intervention or behavioural 
guidance programmes for students directly 
and/or 
in 
collaboration 
with 
school 
personnel such as teachers, school social 
workers 
and/or 
school-based 
speech 
therapists, etc.; and  
 
 
 
＊ Schools should add a clause in the employment contracts for new appointees that if the appointees cannot obtain 
the above required full membership within nine months after the appointment, their contracts will be terminated. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
76 
• To promote home-school co-operation in 
child management and deliver parent 
training programmes in collaboration with 
school personnel.  
 
(b) 
Teacher support level 
• To 
support 
teachers 
in 
the 
early 
identification of at risk students as well as 
the planning and implementation of 
appropriate intervention measures for them; 
• To advise teachers on measures to enhance 
learning and teaching effectiveness as well 
as 
behaviour 
support, 
including 
the 
formulation of individual education plans 
for the students; 
• To advise teachers and school social 
workers in planning and implementing 
school-based 
psycho-educational 
programmes for students; 
• To support teachers in school-based action 
research related to the domains of student 
support as well as learning and teaching; 
and  
• To conduct staff development training to 
equip school personnel with the necessary 
professional knowledge and skills to meet 
the personal, social and special educational 
needs of students. 
 
(c) 
School system level  
• To support schools in developing whole-
school policies to cater for student diversity; 
• To support schools in developing effective 
mechanism to meet the diverse educational 
needs of their students; and 
• To support schools in developing policy and 
mechanism on crisis management and to 
render crisis management service to schools 
whenever necessary. 
3. 
Salary Scale : 
(a) 
MPS Point 25-33 for those appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
(b) 
MPS Point 20-33 for those appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(c) 
MPS Point 25-33 for those appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(d) 
MPS Point 23-33 for those appointed on or after 
1.10.2010 
4.   Period of Probation : 
2 years 
5.   Promotion Prospects :  
 
Educational Psychologist I. 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
77 
Educational Psychologist II will be eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion 
to 
Educational 
Psychologist I if they have obtained: 
 
(a) A Post Graduate Certificate in Education from a 
local university or equivalent; and 
 
(b) 6 years’ relevant post-degree experience of which 
at least 3 years should be as an Educational 
Psychologist II; and 
 
(c) Full membership of the Division of Educational 
Psychology of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society 
or 
an 
equivalent 
status 
in 
an 
internationally 
recognised 
professional 
organization of Educational Psychology; and 
 
(d) Satisfactory service as Educational Psychologist 
II. School should take into account the work 
performance, professional expertise, and other 
personal 
attributes, 
such 
as 
leadership, 
commitment, interpersonal skills, judgment, 
planning and organization abilities, etc. of the 
candidate when considering promotion. (updated 
on 1 November 2013) 
6. 
Any Other Remarks : 
(a) Holders of degrees other than those from a local 
university or equivalent may apply, but should 
attach copies of transcripts of studies to their 
applications 
(b) The candidate must be eligible for graduate 
membership of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society or the British Psychological Society or 
equivalent. The Master’s or Doctoral Degree in 
Educational Psychology (Professional Practice) 
obtained must be one which can prepare the 
candidate for independent professional work as an 
educational psychologist. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
78 
Appendix 4/Attachment L 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
School-based Speech Therapist 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience  
 
for Appointment : 
Candidates should : 
(a) 
have a degree in Speech-Language Pathology 
from a local university, or equivalent; 
(b) 
meet the language proficiency requirements of 
Level 2 or above in English Language and 
Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of 
Secondary Education Examination (HKDSEE), 
or in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education 
Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent [Note 1 & 
2] ; and 
 
(c) 
be able to write fluent English and Chinese, and 
can speak fluent English and Cantonese. 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2023) 
 
2. 
Duties : 
School-based speech therapists should work with the 
school in establishing clear aims of the school-based 
speech therapy services. The services should cover the 
domain of prevention, remediation and development. 
For example: 
 
• 
Support students with speech and language 
impairment: To assess students who are 
suspected of having speech and language 
problems and support them in different delivery 
modes, such as providing individual and group 
therapy, in-class support, communicating with 
teachers and parents and regular review of 
students’ progress, etc; 
• 
Design and implement school-based support 
plan: To provide school-based speech therapy 
services specific to the needs of individual 
schools, taking into account school policies, 
measures and cultures in the design and 
implementation of the services; 
• 
Design curriculum-related support strategies: To 
train students to overcome speech and language 
impairment, develop speech and language 
abilities, and achieve learning goals in line with 
the school curriculum; 
• 
Enhance home-school cooperation: To adopt 
diversified support strategies according to the 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
79 
needs of the students to strengthen home-school 
cooperation. 
 
3. 
Salary Scale : 
 
 
(a) 
MPS Point 18-33 for those appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
(b) 
MPS Point 13-33 for those appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(c) 
MPS Point 18-33 for those appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(d) 
MPS Point 16-33 for those appointed on or after 
1.10.2010 
 
4. 
Period of Probation : 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects : 
2 years 
 
Nil 
6. 
Any Other Remarks : 
 
Nil 
 
[Note] :  
(1) “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in 
the HKCEE before 2007 are accepted administratively as comparable to 
“Level 2” in English Language and Chinese Language in the 2007 HKCEE 
and henceforth. 
 
(2) The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those suitable 
candidates who do not possess the language qualifications. Provided that the 
school is satisfied with the candidates’ language ability for carrying out the 
required duties, appointment can be offered. 
 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2023) 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
80 
Appendix 4/Attachment M 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officer 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience  
 
for Appointment : 
Candidates should have : 
 
(a)  registered under the Social Workers Registration 
Ordinance, Chapter 505; 
(b) 
(i)  
a local degree in Social Science majoring  
in Social Work, or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and has 
successfully completed a one-year post-
graduate course in Social Work at an 
approved institution; or 
 
 
(iii) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and has 
successfully completed an approved two-
year post-graduate course in social study / 
social work; or 
 
 
(iv) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and a Master 
degree in Social Work obtained at an 
approved institution; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and 
Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Diploma 
of 
Secondary 
Education 
Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English 
Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Notes 1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 
the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
Notes: 
1. 
A candidate attaining Level 2 in New Senior 
Secondary subjects or “Attained” in Applied 
Learning subjects in the HKDSEE or Level 2 in 
the HKCEE in 2007 and henceforth will be 
regarded as having met the requirement of a 
Grade E in similar subjects under the HKCEE 
before 2007. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
81 
2. 
A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English 
Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in 
the 
HKCEE 
before 
2007 
are 
accepted 
administratively as comparable to “Level 2” in 
English Language and Chinese Language in the 
2007 HKCEE and henceforth. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
2. 
Duties : 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers in a 
primary school: 
 
• 
serve as a member of the guidance team; 
• 
assist the school in drawing up the student 
guidance policy and the Annual Comprehensive 
Student Guidance Service Plan; 
• 
implement student guidance service in various 
areas including personal growth education, support 
service for parents and teachers, and responsive 
service for students with specific needs. These 
remedial, preventive and developmental student 
guidance services include casework, group work 
and programmes, consultation and coordination of 
community resources. 
3.   Salary Scale : 
 
 
(a) MPS Point 18-33 for those appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
(b) MPS Point 13-33 for those appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(c) MPS Point 18-33 for those appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
 
(d) MPS Point 16-33 for those appointed on or after 
1.10.2010 
Note: 
Omitted points at Point 20, 24 and 30 
 
4.   Period of Probation : 
 
5.   Promotion Prospects : 
 
6.   Any Other Remarks : 
 
2 years 
 
Nil 
 
Nil 
 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
82 
Appendix 4/Attachment N 
 
GUIDE TO APPOINTMENT 
Aided Primary Schools 
School Executive Officer 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
 
Experience  
 
for Appointment : 
Candidates should have a local bachelor’s degree (or 
equivalent). 
 
2. 
Duties : 
To assist in supervising, coordinating and handling 
school administrative matters, with a view to strengthen 
the administration capabilities of the school and the 
school management committee. 
3. 
Salary Scale : 
MPS Point 15- 27 
4. 
Promotion Prospects : 
Nil 
5. 
Period of Probation : 
2 years 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks : 
 
Nil 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
83 
Appendix 4/Attachment O 
 
Conditions of Appointment for Clerical Staff 
 
(Note: For aided primary schools whose clerical staff are paid out of the approved Salaries Grant.) 
  
1.   The conditions of appointment for the post of Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II are :  
  
(a) Either 5 subjects, including English Language at ‘Level 2’ or above in the Hong Kong 
Diploma of Secondary Education Examination OR 4 subjects, including English 
Language, one of which must be at ‘Level 2’ or above and the others at ‘Level 3’ or above 
or equivalent; OR 
(updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
(b) Either 5 subjects, including English Language (Syllabus B) at Grade E or above in the 
Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination OR 4 subjects, including English 
Language (Syllabus B), one of which must be at Grade E or above and the others at 
Grade C or above; OR  
  
(c) a Grade C or above in English Language (Syllabus A) in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination, together with EITHER 4 other subjects at Grade E or above OR 
3 other subjects at Grade C or above or equivalent; OR  
  
(d) 5 subjects, including English, at Grade E or above in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination (English) OR 4 subjects, including English, one of which must 
be at Grade E or above and the other at Grade C or above (awarded before 1974); OR  
  
(e) a Grade C or above in English in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination 
(Chinese) together with EITHER 4 other subjects at Grade E or above OR 3 other 
subjects at Grade C or above (awarded before 1974); OR  
  
(f) a Hong Kong English School Certificate (awarded before 1968) with a pass in English; 
OR  
  
(g) a Hong Kong Chinese School Certificate (awarded before 1968) with a credit in English.  
  
Note: 
For the purpose of appointment of clerical staff in aided schools, ‘Grade C’ and ‘Grade E’ in Chinese 
Language and English Language (Syllabus B) in previous HKCEE are accepted administratively as 
comparable to ‘Level 3’ and ‘Level 2’ respectively in Chinese Language and English Language in the 
HKCEE 2007 and after. 
(updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
2.  Conditions of appointment for the post of Clerical Assistant are:  
  
(a) Education: Secondary 4 (all subjects) in a registered school; and  
  
(b) Good working knowledge of English.  
  
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
84 
3.  Salary Scale 
  
Points on Master Pay Scale 
Assistant Clerical Officer/Clerk Class II 
3 - 15 if appointed before 1.4.2000  
2 - 15 if appointed between 1.4.2000 and 
31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive)  
3 - 15 if appointed on or after 1.8.2007 
Clerical Assistant  
1 - 10 if appointed before 1.4.2000  
0 - 10 if appointed between 1.4.2000 and 
31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive)  
1 - 10 if appointed on or after 1.8.2007  
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
85 
Appendix 5 
Conditions for Promotion and Acting Appointments 
in Aided Primary Schools 
General 
 
I.   All promotions are subject to the following conditions as appropriate: - 
 
(1) All eligible candidates must be assessed by a board the School Management Committee 
appointed for the selection exercise. The selection board shall recommend a suitable 
candidate, if available, for the consideration and approval of the School Management 
Committee. However, the approval of the Permanent Secretary is required for cases of 
promotion and acting appointment to the post of school head, and direct entry to promotion 
posts (except Educational Psychologist I). For such cases, the application must be endorsed 
by the School Management Committee before submission to the Permanent Secretary for 
consideration. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
Conditions for Promotion of Teaching Staff 
 
(2)   The conditions for promotions of teachers to the next higher rank are contained in the guides 
to appointments in Attachments B, C, D, E, G, H and I of Appendix 4. 
 
(3)  The candidate must have undertaken training(s) specified by or acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary in order to be eligible for substantive promotion. Schools are advised to refer to the 
relevant circular(s) currently in force for details of the training requirements for promotion. 
Those who have met all other promotion requirements except the specified training may be 
allowed to act in the promotion posts. The teachers may be confirmed to the promotion ranks 
with retrospective effect from the date of the approved acting appointment provided that they 
complete/acquire the specified training in the same academic year. If a teacher acting in the 
promotion post fails to successfully complete/acquire the required training within the 
prescribed period and with no acceptable reasons, the School Management Committee should 
make an alternative appointment for the promotion post. (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
Conditions for Appointment to the Additional Senior Teacher Post of English 
 
(4) To be eligible for consideration for promotion/direct appointment to the additional senior 
teacher post of English provided, candidates should –  
 
(a) fulfill the appointment requirements laid down in the Guides to Appointment for PSM in 
Appendix 4; and 
 
(b) (i) attain an average proficiency at Level 4 of the English Language Proficiency 
Requirement (LPR) (LP4), i.e. to meet both of the following criteria –  
 
 
The teacher has attained at least Level 3 in all the five papers in the Language 
Proficiency Assessment (LPA). Specifically, the teacher has to attain ‘3’ or above in 
Reading and Listening. For Writing, Speaking and Classroom Language Assessment 
(CLA), the teacher has to attain, in one sitting, ‘3’ or above in all the scales of the 
respective papers; AND 
 
 
At least three papers are at Level 4 or above. For Writing, Speaking and CLA, Level 
4 is deemed to have been attained if more than half of the scales of the respective 
papers are scored, in one sitting, at ‘4’ or above (i.e. having attained Level 4 in three 
or more scales in Writing and CLA and four or more scales in Speaking); or 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
86 
 
(b) (ii) meet the enhanced LPR for English teachers with effect from the 2024/25 school year 
as follows –  
 
 
The teacher has attained an overall band score of 8.0 or above with no individual 
band scores (i.e. the Listening, Reading, Writing, and Speaking band scores) below 
7.5 in the same Test Report Form in the Academic Module of the International 
English Language Testing System (IELTS), which remains valid up to two years 
after the test date/ when taking up teaching the English Language subject; AND  
 
 
The teacher has obtained the “attained with merit” result in the CLA (i.e. within the 
same sitting of the CLA, attain at least Level 4 or above on three out of the four 
scales and Level 3 or above on the remaining one scale). (updated on 1 September 
2024) 
 
(5)   Incumbents of existing senior teacher posts of English appointed before 1 September 2001 
taking charge of the panel of English should not be affected by the introduction of LP4. An 
existing senior teacher of English on transfer, without break of service, to take up an existing 
senior teacher post of English in another school under the same sponsoring body within the 
aided primary school sector and a teacher given an offer of promotion/direct appointment to 
an existing senior teacher post of English, which was to take effect in the 2001/02 school 
year, on or before 18 October 2001 would not be subject to the LP4 requirement. Under the 
enhanced LPR, a teacher who has attained LP4 through attending authorised language 
proficiency training courses or taking the LPA by September 2024 will continue to be 
recognised, fulfilling the requirement for taking up a senior teacher post of English in the 
serving school or new school. However, whenever an existing senior teacher post of English 
is vacated, the school, in filling the vacated post, 
 
(a) should accord priority to LP4 qualified candidates as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(i) or those 
meeting the English LPR as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(ii); and 
 
(b) may employ a teacher who has met the basic LPR, should it be unable to find a suitable 
candidate who is LP4 qualified as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(i) or meets the English LPR 
as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(ii). 
 
In addition, incumbents of existing senior teacher posts of English who are not LP4 qualified 
as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(i) or meeting the English LPR as stated in paragraph (4)(b)(ii) 
are encouraged to acquire the said qualification through the IELTS and CLA. (updated on 1 
September 2024) 
 
Conditions for Promotion of Educational Psychologists 
 
(6)  The conditions for promotion of an Educational Psychologist II to Educational  
Psychologist I are contained in the guides to appointments in Attachments J and K of 
Appendix 4. (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
87 
Appendix 6 
 
Teaching Staff's Contracts in Aided Schools 
 
1.     School's entering into a contract with a teacher immediately after probation 
 
The School Management Committee should enter into a contract with a teacher 
immediately after his two years of probationary period. The contract may not be subject 
to annual re-newal. 
 
2.     Dismissal/Termination of appointment of a teacher after probation 
 
The procedures relating to Dismissal or Termination of Appointment of a teacher as spelt 
out in Appendix 7 should be observed strictly. 
 
3.  
Dismissal/Termination of Appointment of a teacher in the middle of the academic 
year during probationary period 
 
The procedures relating to Dismissal or Termination of appointment of a teacher as spelt 
out in Appendix 7 should be observed strictly. 
 
4.     Dismissal/Termination of appointment of a teacher at the end of the first and second 
academic year during probationary period 
 
If a teacher is still found by the School Management Committee to be performing his duties 
in an unsatisfactory manner (including personality, character and philosophy of education), 
and showing no improvement in his work after being advised, the School Management 
Committee can opt for any one of the following three measures: 
 
either   (a)   To follow the procedures with regard to Dismissal or Termination of 
Appointment of a teacher as spelt out in Appendix 7. 
 
or     (b)  A verbal warning can be given to the teacher by the school Head. The 
content of the warning should be noted down in the school record for future 
reference. The teacher, to whom the warning is given, may note down the 
content of the warning for his own reference and improvement. 
 
or     (c)   After informing verbally the teacher of his shortcomings, the school Head 
may serve the teacher a written letter, listing the weaknesses mentioned in 
their discussion, and may ask the teacher to sign in acknowledgement of the 
letter. 
 
For the School Management Committee opting for (b) or (c), the following points should 
be observed: 
 
(i)   It is not necessary for the School Management Committee to notify the Permanent 
Secretary of such verbal warning(s). However, the record(s) should be made available 
for inspection by the officers of the Education Bureau, if and when required. 
 
(ii)  The written letter should be copied to the Education Bureau for record purpose. The 
Permanent Secretary may investigate at the request of the teacher concerned.  
 
(iii)  If the teacher concerned takes no notice of the verbal warning(s), the School 
Management Committee may terminate the appointment of the teacher by giving one 
month's notice at the end of the school year. 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
88 
Appendix 7 
 
Procedure to be followed in case of Dismissal 
or Termination of Appointment of a Teacher 
The procedure to be followed by the School Management Committee should be as follows :  
(a) 
The teacher concerned should be given a warning, or warnings that his work is 
unsatisfactory. This should be recorded in the school files.  
 
(b) 
If no improvement in the teacher's work is noticeable after an appropriate period then a 
formal written warning embodying relevant criticisms should be given to the teacher, 
and a copy of this letter should be forwarded to the Permanent Secretary. This should 
be recorded in the school files. 
 
(c) 
On receipt of this letter the Permanent Secretary shall investigate the circumstances. 
 
(d) 
If the teacher after receiving the warning letter still shows no improvement after an 
appropriate period, normally not less than one month, and the School Management 
Committee intends to dismiss him or not to renew his contract after the date of expiry, 
the Supervisor shall so inform the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(e) 
In each case of dismissal of a teacher, a sufficient period of notice of termination of 
employment must be given in accordance with Section 57. 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
89 
Appendix 8 
 
Payment of Salaries on Appointment, Resignation, 
Retirement or Termination of Appointment 
 
 
1.  (a)  A teacher with one academic year's service or more without break whose appointment 
terminates no earlier than the beginning of  
 
(i) the major school holidays, i.e., Christmas, Chinese New year and Easter will be 
paid to the end of the school holidays;  
 
(ii) the Summer Vacation will be paid to the end of August.  
 
(b) 
A teacher with service of less than one academic year but more than 59 days whose 
appointment terminates no earlier than the beginning of  
 
(i) the major school holidays, i.e., Christmas, Chinese new year and Easter will be 
paid to the end of the school holidays;  
 
(ii) the Summer Vacation will be paid to the end of July.  
 
(c) 
A teacher with service of 59 days or less shall be paid up to and including the last day 
of the performance of full duties.  
 
(d) 
A teacher who resigns from one aided school to take up a new appointment in another 
aided school on the commencement day of a new school year and without break in 
teaching service, will be paid by the school he leaves for the period up to and including 
the last day of performance of full duties in that school, and by the school to which he 
is newly appointed from the day following his last day of performance of full duties in 
the former school. 
 
2.  In a newly-opened school the date of assumption of full duties shall normally be deemed to 
be the date of commencement of classes. The Permanent Secretary may approve, for 
purposes of grant, the appointment of staff who are required for essential preliminary 
planning of new schools in advance of the date of commencement of classes, and in the case 
of reprovisioned schools, he may approve the continued payment of the salaries of staff of 
the original school should the completion of the building be delayed beyond the scheduled 
date.  
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
90 
Appendix 9 
 
Grant of Sick Leave, Special Tuberculosis Leave and Paternity Leave 
 
(A)  For Teachers 
 
1.  Sick Leave 
(a)  Full-time monthly-paid teachers including temporary monthly-paid teachers may be 
granted up to 28 days paid sick leave in their first year of service in an aided school 
and on completion of each succeeding year of service, a further 48 days in total would 
be granted. Paid sick leave can be accumulated up to a maximum of 168 days. The 
calculation of leave entitlement for part-time monthly-paid teachers should be the same 
as the full-time monthly paid teachers. However, with effect from 1 September 2006, 
a teacher with a break of service of more than 1 year will forfeit his/her sick leave 
balance. (updated on 16 November 2006)  
 
(b)  Daily-rated supply teachers who have worked under a continuous contract for not less 
than 4 weeks are eligible for sickness allowance at the rate of two paid sickness days 
for each completed month of employment in accordance with the Employment 
Ordinance. 
 
(c)  Sick leave exceeding two days should be supported by a valid medical certificate issued 
by a registered medical practitioner, a registered dentist or a registered Chinese 
medicine practitioner*. (updated on 29 January 2007)  
 
(d)  No-pay sick leave may be granted if a teacher's leave balance/entitlement has been 
exhausted.  
 
2.  
Special Tuberculosis Leave 
(a)  Teachers who are suffering from tuberculosis may be granted special tuberculosis leave 
with full pay with the support of a valid medical certificate issued by a registered 
medical practitioner or a registered Chinese medicine practitioner* on the following 
terms -  
(i)  those with more than one but less than four years service may be granted up to 
three months leave on full pay;  
 
(ii)  those with four or more but less than eight years service may be granted up to six 
months leave on full pay;  
 
(iii)  those with eight or more than eight years service may be granted up to six months 
leave on full pay plus two weeks additional sick leave in respect of each additional 
year of service over eight years up to a maximum of twelve months leave on full 
pay. 
 
Service under all these provisions means service deemed to be continuous by the 
Permanent Secretary. (updated on 29 January 2007)  
(b)  Upon exhaustion of special tuberculosis leave balance and sick leave balance, the 
teacher will be granted no-pay special tuberculosis leave. 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
91 
3. 
Paternity Leave 
 
Teachers with not less than 40 weeks’ continuous service immediately before taking the 
paternity leave are eligible for full-pay paternity leave up to 5 working days. Schools are 
required to follow the administration arrangements of paternity leave as set out in the 
prevailing circular available on the Education Bureau homepage. (updated on 1 September 
2016) 
 
(B)  For Educational Psychologists, School-based Speech Therapists, Primary School 
Assistant Social Work Officers and School Executive Officers 
 
Educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant Social 
Work Officers and school executive officers shall enjoy such benefits as teachers with regard 
to sick leave, special tuberculosis leave and paternity leave. However, sick leave balance will 
be forfeited with a break of service of more than 45 days. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
*  
The arrangement for the recognition of sick leave certificates issued by registered Chinese 
medicine practitioners for sick leave with effect from 1 December 2006 is not applicable to 
sick leave for injury on duty/occupational disease unless and until the Employees’ 
Compensation Ordinance is amended to this effect. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
92 
Appendix 10 
Grant of Maternity Leave 
(A) For Teachers 
 
1. 
Female teachers who have completed 40 weeks of resident service prior to the 
commencement of scheduled maternity leave may be granted 14 weeks full-pay maternity 
leave. There is no limitation on the number of surviving children that a female teacher may 
have in order to be qualified for maternity leave pay. (updated on 1 January 2019) 
  
2. 
Female teachers employed under a continuous contract but with less than 40 weeks of resident 
service may be granted maternity leave without pay. The calculation of leave entitlement for 
part-time monthly-paid teachers should be the same as the full-time monthly-paid teachers.  
 
3. 
Maternity leave shall be the aggregate of-  
 
(a)  a continuous period of 14 weeks from and inclusive of –  
 
(i)  the date of commencement of maternity leave as determined under section 12AA 
of the Employment Ordinance (see below); or  
 
(ii)  the actual date of confinement, if confinement occurs before the date of 
commencement mentioned in subparagraph (i);  
 
(b)  a further period equal to the number of days, if any, beginning on the day after the 
expected date of confinement up to and including the actual date of confinement; such 
further period of leave is to be taken immediately following the period of leave under 
paragraph (a); and  
 
(c)  a further period, not exceeding 4 weeks, on grounds of illness or disability arising out 
of pregnancy or confinement.  
 
Under section 12AA of the Employment Ordinance, a pregnant employee may, with the 
agreement of the employer, decide on the date of commencement of her maternity leave, 
provided that such date is within a period of not less than 2 weeks before, and not more than 
4 weeks before, the expected date of confinement. If the employee does not exercise her 
option to decide on the date of commencement, or if she fails to secure her employer’s 
agreement to her proposed leave schedule, the date of commencement of maternity leave 
shall be 4 weeks immediately before the expected date of confinement. (updated on 1 
January 2019) 
 
4. 
The entitlement to pay is, however, limited to the period of 14 weeks (except paragraph 6(a)). 
An accurate record of any maternity leave granted shall be kept by the school. (updated on 1 
January 2019) 
 
5. 
When more absence is recommended by a registered medical practitioner or a registered 
Chinese medicine practitioner, additional maternity leave may be granted as no-pay leave to 
bring the total absence up to 6 months. Further leave without pay on the same terms may be 
granted. (updated on 29 January 2007)  
 
6. 
The following categories of female teachers will also be eligible for full pay for any part of 
the maternity leave which falls within a major school holiday, i.e. Christmas, Chinese New 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
93 
Year, Easter and Summer Vacation –  
 
(a) 
Female teachers whose maternity leave exceeds 14 weeks as provided in paragraph 3(a) 
and the excess portion of maternity leave as provided in paragraph 3(b) and/or 3(c) falls 
wholly or partly within a major school holiday; and  
 
(b)  Female teachers who are employed under a continuous contract but have less than 40 
weeks’ resident service to qualify for full pay maternity leave and whose maternity 
leave as provided in paragraph 3 falls wholly or partly within a major school holiday. 
(updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
7. 
Maternity leave is not counted as sick leave.  
 
8. 
A female teacher is not entitled to maternity leave whilst absent from duty for other reasons.  
 
9. 
A female teacher has to serve notice of pregnancy and of her intention to take maternity leave 
to her employer after her pregnancy has been confirmed by a valid medical certificate issued 
by a registered medical practitioner, a registered midwife or a registered Chinese medicine 
practitioner (except for the certificate of the actual date of confinement). If required by the 
employer, the female teacher has to produce a medical certificate which specifies the expected 
date of confinement for the 14 weeks of maternity leave under subparagraph 3(a)(i) or a 
medical certificate which specifies the date of confinement for the 14 weeks of maternity 
leave under subparagraph 3(a)(ii). A female staff who may take any period of maternity leave 
under paragraph 3(b) shall, if so required by her employer, produce a medical certificate 
specifying the date of confinement. (updated on 1 January 2019)  
 
10. A pregnant female teacher may, on producing a medical certificate issued by a registered 
medical practitioner or a registered Chinese medicine practitioner with an opinion as to her 
unfitness to handle heavy materials, work in places where gas injurious to pregnancy is 
generated, or do other work injurious to pregnancy as specified in the medical certificate, 
request her employer to refrain from giving her such work during her pregnancy period. 
(updated on 29 January 2007)  
 
(B) For Educational Psychologists, School-based Speech Therapists, Primary School 
Assistant Social Work Officers and School Executive Officers 
 
Female educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, Primary School Assistant 
Social Work Officers and school executive officers shall enjoy such benefits as female 
teachers with regard to maternity leave, where applicable. (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
94 
Appendix 11A 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Educational Psychologists 
 
1.  Educational psychologists paid out of the Salaries Grant, who do not enjoy school holidays, 
will be granted full pay leave on an annual basis. Such leave shall be taken during the major 
school holidays, subject to mutual agreement between the school and the staff. No 
replacement will be granted for educational psychologists on such leave. 
 
(a) Educational psychologists paid out of the Salaries Grant appointed before 1 June 2000 
may be granted not less than 22 days of paid leave on an annual basis. 
 
(b) For educational psychologists offered appointments on or after 1 June 2000, their 
entitlement to annual leave with pay is as follows: 
 
Salary Point 
Less than 10 years of service 
10 years of service and over 
 
 
MPS Point 14 and 
above 
18 days 
22 days 
 
2.  The leave entitlement in paragraph (b) above does not apply to educational psychologists 
offered appointments before 1 June 2000 so long as: 
 
(a) they remain in their present rank or get promoted to a higher rank in the same grade in 
their school; or 
 
(b) they are deployed to the same rank from one aided school to another under the same 
sponsoring body; or 
 
(c) they transfer to the same rank without a break of service within the aided school sector. 
Transfer within a period of 45 days will not be taken as break of service. 
 
(updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
95 
Appendix 11B 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by School-based Speech Therapists 
 
School-based speech therapists paid out of the Salaries Grant, who do not entitle school holidays, 
will be granted full pay leave on an annual basis. Such leave shall be taken during the major school 
holidays, subject to mutual agreement between the school and the staff. No replacement will be 
granted for school-based speech therapists on such leave. The entitlement of school-based speech 
therapists to annual leave with pay is as follows: 
 
Salary Point 
    Less than 10 years of service 
10 years of service and over 
 
MPS Point 16 -33              18 days                   22 days 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
96 
Appendix 11C 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers 
 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers paid out of the Salaries Grant, who do not enjoy 
school holidays, will be granted full pay leave on an annual basis. Such leave shall be taken during 
the major school holidays, subject to mutual agreement between the school and the staff. No 
replacement will be granted for Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers on such leave. The 
entitlement of Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers to annual leave with pay is as follows: 
 
Salary Point 
    Less than 10 years of service 
10 years of service and over 
 
MPS Point 16 -33              18 days                   22 days 
 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
97 
Appendix 11D 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by School Executive Officers 
 
School executive officers paid out of the Salaries Grant, who do not entitle school holidays, will 
be granted full pay leave on an annual basis. Such leave shall be taken during the major school 
holidays, subject to mutual agreement between the school and the staff. No replacement will be 
granted for school executive officers on such leave. The entitlement of school executive officers 
to annual leave with pay is as follows: 
 
Salary Point 
    Less than 10 years of service 
10 years of service and over 
 
MPS Point 15 -27              18 days                   22 days 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
98 
Appendix 11E 
 
Paid Annual Leave Entitled by Clerical Staff Paid out of Salaries Grant 
 
1.   For those clerical staff paid out of the Salaries Grant who were appointed before 1 June 2000, 
the School Management Committee may grant paid leave up to 14 days per annum to those 
with less than 10 years’ service and 22 days per annum to those with more than 10 years’ 
service.  
 
2.   For those clerical staff paid out of the Salaries Grant and offered appointments on or after 1 
June 2000, their entitlement to annual leave with pay is as follows - 
 
Salary point 
Less than 10 years of service 
10 years of service and over 
(Master Pay Scale) 
(working days per year) 
Pt. 0-13 
14 
18 
Pt. 14 and above 
18 
22 
 
3.   The leave entitlement in paragraph 2 above does not apply to those clerical staff paid out of 
the Salaries Grant who were offered appointment before 1 June 2000 so long as - 
 
(a)  they remain in their present rank or get promoted to a higher rank in the same grade in 
their school; or 
 
(b) they are deployed to the same rank from one aided school to another under the same 
sponsoring body; or 
 
(c)   they transfer to the same rank without a break of service within the aided school sector. 
Transfer within a period of 45 days will not be taken as break of service.  
 
4.   Paid leave shall be taken during major school holidays. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
99 
Appendix 12 
 
Grant of Maternity Leave to Female Clerical Staff Paid out of Salaries Grant 
 
1.   Subject to the provisions of the Employment Ordinance, the School Management Committee 
of an aided primary school shall grant paid maternity leave to non-teaching staff who have 
completed 40 weeks of continuous service in the school prior to the commencement of 
maternity leave. There is no limitation on the number of surviving children that an employee 
may have in order to be qualified for maternity leave pay. Maternity leave shall be the 
aggregate of -  
 
(a)  a continuous period of 14 weeks from and inclusive of -  
 
(i) 
the date of commencement of maternity leave as determined under section 12AA 
of the Employment Ordinance (see below); or  
 
(ii)  the actual date of confinement, if confinement occurs before the date of 
commencement mentioned in (i);  
 
(b)  a further period equal to the number of days, if any, beginning on the day after the 
expected date of confinement up to and including the actual date of confinement; such 
further period of leave is to be taken immediately following the period of leave under 
(a); and  
 
(c)  a further period, not exceeding 4 weeks, on grounds of illness or disability arising out 
of pregnancy or confinement. (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
2.   Under section 12AA of the Employment Ordinance, a pregnant employee may, with the 
agreement of the employer, decide on the date of commencement of her maternity leave, 
provided that such date is within a period of not less than 2 weeks before, and not more than 
4 weeks before, the expected date of confinement. If the employee does not exercise her 
option to decide on the date of commencement, or if she fails to secure her employer’s 
agreement to her proposed leave schedule, the date of commencement of maternity leave shall 
be 4 weeks immediately before the expected date of confinement. (updated on 1 January 
2019) 
 
3.   The entitlement to pay is, however, limited to the period of 14 weeks. An accurate record of 
any maternity leave shall be kept by the school. (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
4. 
A pregnant female employee may, on producing a medical certificate issued by a registered 
medical practitioner or a registered Chinese medicine practitioner with an opinion as to her 
unfitness to handle heavy materials, work in places where gas injurious to pregnancy is 
generated, or do other work injurious to pregnancy as specified in the medical certificate, 
request her employer to refrain from giving her such work during her pregnancy period.  
(updated on 29 January 2007) 
 
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
100 
Appendix 13 
 
Subsidised Schools Provident Fund 
 
Teachers joining the Subsidised Schools Provident fund are subject to the Rules of the Funds which 
are statutory rules made under the Education Ordinance. The following are extracts of certain main 
features for easy reference only.  
1.  With effect from 1 September 1980, Government's subsidies towards the employers' 
contribution in respect of the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund shall be made in accordance 
with the following scale :  
Length of continuous  
Employers' contribution  
contributory service  
(percentage of employees' salary) 
 
Less than ten years 
 
5%  
 
 
Not less than 10 years) 
10% 
 
But less than 15 years) 
 
 
Not less than 15 years 
15% 
 
2. 
Employees' contribution shall remain at 5%.  
3. 
Every teacher who is not over the age of 55 years upon his first appointment to a school on 
or after 24 June 1982 is required to contribute to the Fund. A part-time teacher employed on 
a regular basis may at his option contribute to the provident fund. 
4. 
An annual dividend to each contributor of 5 percent of his account is guaranteed and any 
shortfall in funds for the purpose of the guaranteed dividend is to be met by a loan (repayable 
without interest) made by the Government to the Funds. No supplementary dividend may be 
declared if there is an outstanding loan.  
5. 
Benefits to contributors are increased on the following sliding scale according to length of 
continuous contributory service on withdrawal from the Funds in normal circumstances :  
Benefits on Withdrawal 
Contributor's own  
  Government's  
contribution plus   
 
    donation plus  
Length of Continuous  
 
   
 dividends declared   
 
  dividends declared 
Contributory service  
 
         thereon    
 
            thereon      
 
Less than 5 years 
100%  
Nil  
Not less than 5 years) 
100% 
50% 
but less than 6 years)  
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
101 
 
Not less than 6 years) 
100% 
60% 
but less than 7 years) 
 
Not less than 7 years) 
100% 
70% 
but less than 8 years) 
 
Not less than 8 years) 
100% 
80% 
but less than 9 years) 
 
Not less than 9 years) 
100% 
90% 
but less than 10 years) 
 
Not less than 10 years 
100% 
100% 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
102 
Appendix 14 
 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
Structure 
 
1.  The Operating Expenses Block Grant (OEBG) covers various non-salary recurrent grants 
with the exception of grants disbursed on an actual claim or reimbursement basis. The Grant 
comprises a General Domain and a Special Domain as follows - 
(a) General Domain  
 
Schools are free to decide the amount to be spent on individual constituent grants under 
this domain. If surpluses are available, schools may use such funds to top up 
expenditure on items in the Special Domain. Surplus of the General Domain can also 
be used on items chargeable to other government subsidies outside the OEBG.  
 
(b) Special Domain  
 
This covers grants which are allocated for achieving specific policy objectives. Each 
grant under the Special Domain is separate and no transfer will be allowed among the 
grants. Funds in this domain cannot be transferred out to ensure that schools will deploy 
the funds for the specified purposes, but they may be topped up with surpluses from 
the General Domain. 
2.  The Permanent Secretary may review the rates, the grouping of the constituent grants and 
virement arrangement when required. Schools are advised to refer to the relevant circular 
currently in force. 
 
Principles and rules on usage 
 
3. 
The OEBG provides schools with greater flexibility in the use of resources. In this regard, 
schools are allowed to set their own spending priorities and allocations, having regard to the 
objectives and policies laid down by their School Management Committees (SMC). 
4. 
In exercising the flexibility, schools should always bear in mind that the interest of students 
comes first. They should also ensure that the expenditure incurred is reasonable and 
necessary for educational purposes. Thus, for instance, schools should keep expenditure on 
purchase of flower-baskets for ceremonial activities to a minimum. In addition, schools 
should ensure that any recurrent consequences arising from exercising funding flexibility 
will be absorbed within the OEBG or met by schools' own funds.  
5. 
In incurring expenditure, schools should observe the ambit of the constituent grants of the 
OEBG, as set out in the Code of Aid and in circulars issued by the Education Bureau from 
time to time. In addition, schools should ensure that the total spending should be kept within 
the amount of the OEBG, i.e. no topping up of the OEBG will be given.  
 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
103 
6. 
Subsidy will continue to be provided for Provident Fund (PF) contributions in respect of 
clerical and janitor staff employed within the provision allocated for Administration Grant 
or the Revised Administration Grant. For staff employed with funds under other constituent 
grants of the OEBG, schools should meet the PF contributions with surplus funds under 
OEBG or their own funds.  
7. 
On the basis of the principles and rules stated above, the following items of expenditure shall 
not be charged to the OEBG –  
(a)   entertainment expenses such as lunch/dinner for staff not related to their discharge of 
duties;  
 
 
(b)   fringe benefits/welfare for staff, including housing benefits, provision of food or food 
allowance, medical expenses, travelling expenses, etc.; 
 
(c) 
penalty charges, fines and interest payments;  
 
(d) 
loans to staff or third parties; 
 
(e) 
subscription to staff associations and professional bodies; 
 
(f) 
write-offs, e.g. overpayments;  
 
(g) 
administrative and management expenses, including salaries of staff, of the 
headquarters or other service units of the sponsoring organisation; and 
 
(h)  donations. 
 
The above list is not exhaustive. The Education Bureau will revise the list and inform 
schools of the changes as and when appropriate. 
    (updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
Rates of the OEBG 
 
8. 
When first introduced in the 2000/01 school year, the OEBG had the rates set on the basis 
of the rates approved for the 1999/2000 school year. The OEBG rates will be revised 
annually in accordance with the movement of the Composite Consumer Price Index. The 
Education Bureau will also review the need to revise in real terms the rates of individual 
grants as and when required.  
 
Surplus retention 
 
9. 
To give schools greater flexibility, schools are allowed to retain surplus balance up to 12 
months’ provision of the OEBG. Applications for accumulation of surpluses in excess of 12 
months' provision will only be considered in exceptional circumstances. 
10. Schools should ascertain the surplus balances of grants under the General Domain and the 
Special Domain respectively. The surpluses should be totalled and if this total exceeds the 
12 months’ provision of the prevailing level of the OEBG, schools should return the excess 
to the Education Bureau.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
104 
11. When the surplus exceeds the 12 months' provision, schools are free to decide from which 
constituent grant the excess may be clawed back by the Education Bureau. 
Expenditure Control and Accountability 
 
12. To ensure that the OEBG funds are spent properly and cost-effectively, schools should obtain 
directives from their SMCs regarding the scope, criteria and rules for allocating funds. 
Schools should ensure that the approved budget is followed in incurring expenditure. To 
cope with urgent or unforeseeable needs, schools may consider seeking delegation of the 
authority from SMCs for making changes to the budget up to a certain financial limit. 
13. Schools should ensure that the total expenditure is kept within the amount of the OEBG. 
Any deficit will have to be met by the schools' own funds. Also, if expenditure is found 
improperly incurred or charged to the OEBG funds, the school should make good such 
expenditure by charging it to its own funds.  
 
Accounting and Reporting Requirements 
 
14. Schools should continue to maintain separate ledger accounts for each constituent grant of 
the OEBG. In addition, schools should keep a General Domain Control Account and a 
Special Domain Control Account for the purpose of recording and monitoring the surpluses. 
Schools should also report periodically to their SMCs the expenditure position of the OEBG. 
15. Schools should submit audited annual accounts and such other financial statements in 
accordance with the format as required by the Education Bureau. The auditors should certify 
that the OEBG funds have been used in accordance with the ambit and rules as promulgated 
in the Code of Aid and in circulars issued by the Education Bureau from time to time.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
105 
 Appendix 15 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Ambit 
 
1.  The Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant (CFEG) will cover - 
 
(a)  Furniture & Equipment (F&E) items to meet the needs of schools and students;  
(b)  maintenance/repairs fees for F&E items; and  
(c) insurance premium for non-standard F&E items for school portions.  
 
Schools may make reference to the F&E lists for standard design schools issued by the 
Education Bureau.  
Principles and Rules on Usage 
 
2.  The Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant (CFEG) provides schools with greater 
flexibility in the use of resources. Schools should set their spending priorities and allocations 
in line with the objectives and policies laid down by their School Management Committees 
(SMCs). In exercising the flexibility, schools should always bear in mind that the interest of 
students should come first. They should ensure that the expenditure incurred is reasonable 
and necessary for educational purposes and that the procured F&E items are properly 
recorded, managed and protected from loss or damage. In addition, schools should ensure 
that the CFEG is able to cover all the expenditures.  
 
Grant Rate 
 
3.  The rate will be adjusted annually in accordance with the movement of the Composite 
Consumer Price Index.  
 
Procurement, Financial and Accounting Arrangements 
 
4. 
Procurement and Financial Arrangements  
 
Within the amount of CFEG available in school, there is no financial limit for F&E items to 
be purchased. Schools should adhere to the guidelines on tendering and purchasing 
procedures and any guidelines the Permanent Secretary may issue. 
 
5.  Accounting Arrangements  
 
Schools should maintain a separate account named “Composite Furniture and Equipment 
Grant Account” to record the income and expenditure of the CFEG. The cost of the procured 
F&E should be captured in the Balance Sheet under the headings of “Fixed Assets for 
Furniture and Equipment” and “Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant Utilised”. In 
addition, schools are required to record the items procured in the Fixed Assets Register. 
 
6. 
Expenditure Control  
 
(a)  To ensure that the CFEG funds are spent properly and effectively, schools should obtain 
directives from their SMCs regarding the scope, criteria and rules of allocating funds. 
Schools should devise their own budget on how to use the CFEG funds and seek the 
approval of their SMCs of the budget and make the approved budget transparent to 
parents and teachers. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
106 
 
(b)  Schools should ensure that the total expenditure is kept within the amount of CFEG. 
Also, if any expenditure is found improperly incurred or charged to CFEG funds, the 
schools are required to make good such expenditure by non-government funds. 
 
Accountability 
 
7.  Schools have to account for the proper utilization of the CFEG by  
(a) 
ensuring that they have suitable F&E items for the delivery of educational services and 
that such F&E items are properly recorded, managed and protected from loss or damage;  
 
(b) developing accountable school-based procedures for F&E acquisition/replacement, 
monitoring and evaluation; 
 
(c)  relating the school budget, including the budget for F&E, to the annual school plan;  
 
(d) keeping a separate account named “Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant Account” 
to record the income and expenditure of the CFEG; and 
 
(e)  making available the school report with a financial statement for stakeholders and the 
Education Bureau. (updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
Separate F&E Subsidy outside the CFEG 
 
8.  Separate F&E subsidy will continue to be provided to schools by the Education Bureau for 
(a)  School Administration and Management System, education television and information 
technology in education projects; 
 
(b)  replacing standard F&E items lost in natural disaster, burglary, theft, fire etc.; and 
 
(c)  new initiatives. (However, expenditures on replacement of these F&E items have to be 
met by the CFEG.) 
 
Appendix 16 is relevant. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
107 
Appendix 16 
 
Non-Recurrent Grants (Furniture and Equipment) 
 
 
Provision for furniture and equipment items not covered by the Composite Furniture and 
Equipment Grant (CFEG) 
 
1.  Separate non-recurrent subsidy will be provided for furniture and equipment (F&E) items 
costing $3,000 or above not covered by the CFEG for - 
(a)  School Administration and Management System;  
 
(b) 
replacing standard F&E items lost in natural disaster, burglary, theft, fire etc;   
 
(c) 
reprovisioning or redevelopment of and extension to an existing school administered 
under the terms of this Code of Aid; and 
 
(d)  new initiatives  
 
2.  Schools will be notified individually in writing by the responsible Section of the Education 
Bureau of the grant(s) that has/have been approved, the amount of provision and the due date 
for requesting the payment/reimbursement of the F&E subsidy. Schools should then proceed 
with the procurement exercise as soon as possible, following the procurement procedures in 
the prevailing circular(s)/circular memorandum(s) in force and the Guidelines on 
Procurement Procedures in Aided Schools available on the Education Bureau homepage. 
(updated on 1 September 2016)  
Principles of Procurement (also applicable for procurement charged to the CFEG) 
 
3. 
For single purchases exceeding $200,000, tenders from at least 5 suppliers should be 
obtained.  
4. 
For single purchases not exceeding $200,000, purchases may be arranged by obtaining two 
or more quotations (i.e. above $5,000 to $50,000, by at least two oral quotations and above 
$50,000 to $200,000, by at least five written quotations) with the lowest offer to specification 
being accepted. Where the total value of the purchase of any stores and services does not 
exceed $5,000, schools are not required to conduct any competitive bidding, subject to minor 
purchase of stores and services being made to meet immediate needs and the school staff at 
the appropriate level being satisfied that such purchases are essential and his/her certifying 
that the prices are fair and reasonable and such records being properly kept by schools.  
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
Tender Opening and Vetting Committee (TOVC) 
 
5. 
The Principal should appoint a TOVC at least 3 working days before the tender opening date. 
The TOVC will be responsible for opening, vetting and referring tender documents to the 
appropriate subject teacher(s) and administrative staff for evaluation and recommendation 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
108 
before the tender documents are referred to the Tender Approving Committee for 
consideration.  
6. 
A TOVC should comprise two staff members, one with the salary point not lower than Master 
Pay Scale Point 25 and the other of a rank not lower than a Clerical Assistant or equivalent. 
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
Approving Authorities for Procurement of Stores and Services 
 
7. 
Purchases of stores and services not exceeding $5,000 and oral quotations above $5,000 to 
$50,000 shall be approved by the Principal/Deputy Head. For schools without Deputy Head, 
the approving authority rests with the Principal.  
8. 
Written quotations above $50,000 to $200,000 shall be approved by the Principal.  
9. 
Tenders above $200,000 shall be approved by a Tender Approving Committee comprising 
the School Supervisor/Manager, the Principal, a teacher and a representative of the Parent-
Teacher Association or a parent manager.  
10. The School Management Committee should ensure that –  
(a)  the procurement procedures laid down by the Education Bureau are complied with;  
 
(b)  the designated purpose(s) of each grant is/are met;  
 
(c)  proper records of the quotations and tenders are available for inspection by the 
Education Bureau; and  
 
(d)  a separate section on the set-up fund for furniture and equipment should be included in 
new schools’ audited annual account with details by items and subjects.  
 
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
Payment and Accounting Arrangements 
 
11. The arrangements for payment/reimbursement of approved non-recurrent F&E subsidy to 
aided schools are set out in the respective approval letters to individual schools.  
12. Schools should record the income and expenditure separately for the non-recurrent subsidy 
under F&E Account for individual projects in accordance with the approval letter. The F&E 
items purchased should be recorded in the Fixed Assets Register. Schools should observe the 
requirements laid down in the relevant Circular Memorandum on Annual Accounts of Aided 
Schools.  
(updated on 1 September 2017) 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
109 
Appendix 17 
Non-recurrent Grants (Major repairs and Projects of $50 million and below) 
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
Major Repairs Grants for items costing at or above the specified threshold (updated on 1 
September 2024) 
 
I. 
For estate schools 
 
1. 
Requests for subsidy towards the cost of items in respect of internal/external/structural repair 
works costing at or above a specified threshold must be submitted to the Education Bureau 
via the appropriate channel as detailed in the call circular issued annually to schools. The 
completed applications should reach the Education Bureau not later than the specified date 
each year. With effect from 1 September 2025, the threshold for repair item is adjusted to 
$10,000 for primary schools. The threshold is subject to review and adjustment by the 
Education Bureau from time to time. (Remarks: The threshold in 2024/25 school year was 
$6,000 for primary schools.) (updated on 1 September 2025) 
 
2. 
In making their application of works, schools will have to specify the location and details of 
works to be done without giving the estimated costs and state the reasons why the work 
requests are needed.  
 
3. 
Applications will be vetted by the term consultants appointed by the Education Bureau. The 
term consultants will conduct technical vetting of schools’ applications, i.e. categorizing the 
work type, providing recommendations on the estimated costs and providing comments as 
necessary on the technical aspects of the works proposed by the schools to the Architectural 
Services Department (for external/structural repairs works) and Education Bureau (for 
internal repairs works) for consideration. (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
4. 
Subject to the availability of funds, the Education Bureau will inform schools of the approved 
projects.  
 
5. 
For schools with approval given, the term consultants appointed by the Education Bureau will 
liaise with individual schools to arrange for the works programme. All repairs works will be 
carried out by contractors supervised by the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau. All approved works are expected to be completed within the same major repairs cycle 
(i.e. completed before the next round of application in the following year) and schools should 
take all necessary measures to facilitate the contractors and term consultants appointed by the 
Education Bureau to take forward the approved projects. (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
6. 
Requests for subsidy in respect of major repairs which have not been included in the Estimates 
will not normally be considered unless they are of an emergency or unforeseen nature. 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
7. 
For items involving works in a non-school portion, the school should state clearly when 
submitting the application. Normally, the term consultants will not be responsible for any 
works in non-school portion which is separately identifiable from the school portion. The 
term consultants will only undertake works in a non-school portion when it is inseparable 
from the school portion at which approved repair works are to be carried out. Prior to 
commencement of works in the non-school portion, the school is required to agree in writing 
the scope of works and to pay the necessary costs with an on-cost at prevailing rate charged 
for the works in the non-school portion. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
110 
 
Note 
All School Management Committees, as building tenants, should be responsible for the safety 
and soundness of their buildings. The term consultant appointed by the Education Bureau, 
acting in its role as works agent, would be responsible only for the sufficiency of the actual 
repair work projects undertaken by them. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2016)  
 
II. For non-estate schools 
 
1. 
Requests for subsidy towards the cost of items in respect of internal/external/structural repair 
works costing at or above a specified threshold must be submitted to the Education Bureau 
via the appropriate channel as detailed in the call circular issued annually to schools. The 
completed applications should reach the Education Bureau not later than the specified date. 
With effect from 1 September 2025, the threshold for repair item is adjusted to $10,000 for 
primary schools. The threshold is subject to review and adjustment by the Education Bureau 
from time to time. (Remarks: The threshold in 2024/25 school year was $6,000 for primary 
schools.) (updated on 1 September 2025)  
 
2. 
In making their application of works, schools will have to specify the scope of works to be 
done without giving the estimated costs and state the reasons why the work requests are 
needed. 
 
3. 
Applications will be vetted by the term consultants appointed by the Education Bureau. The 
term consultants will conduct technical vetting of schools’ applications, i.e. categorizing the 
work type, providing recommendations on the estimated costs and providing comments as 
necessary on the technical aspects of the works proposed by the schools to the Education 
Bureau for consideration. (updated on 1 September 2024)  
 
4. 
Subject to the availability of funds, the Education Bureau will inform schools of the approved 
projects.  
 
5. 
For schools with approval given, the term consultants appointed by the Education Bureau will 
liaise with individual schools to arrange for the works programme. All repairs works will be 
carried out by contractors supervised by the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau. All approved works are expected to be completed within the same major repairs cycle 
(i.e. completed before the next round of application in the following year) and schools should 
take all necessary measures to facilitate the contractors and term consultants appointed by the 
Education Bureau to take forward the approved projects. (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
(Remarks: For projects of estimated cost exceeding $2 million each approved before 1 April 
2019, the professional officers of the Architectural Services Department will continue to 
deliver the projects and arrange contractors to carry out the repair works.)  
 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
 
6. 
Requests for subsidy in respect of major repairs which have not been included in the Estimates 
will not normally be considered unless they are of an emergency or unforeseen nature. 
 
7. 
For items involving works in a non-school portion, the school should state clearly when 
submitting the application. Normally, the term consultants/Architectural Services Department 
will not be responsible for any works in non-school portion which is separately identifiable 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
111
from the school portion. The term consultants/Architectural Services Department will only 
undertake works in a non-school portion when it is inseparable from the school portion at 
which approved repair works are to be carried out. Prior to commencement of works in the 
non-school portion, the school is required to agree in writing the scope of work and to pay 
the necessary costs with an on-cost at prevailing rate charged for the works in the non-school 
portion. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
Deed of Covenant 
 
8. 
Where capital works exceeding $0.5 million is to be carried out in school buildings erected 
on private land, the trustees or legal representatives of the sponsors must execute under seal 
and register by Memorial in the Lands Department a Deed of Covenant which shall contain 
such provisions as the Permanent Secretary may require, and shall in particular provide the 
following:  
 
(a) 
That the premises will be used solely for approved educational purposes or other 
purposes approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
That the school will be managed in accordance with the Education Ordinance and its 
subsidiary legislation and the Code of Aid for Primary School. 
 
(c) 
That if the sponsor should at any time desire to be released from the foregoing 
obligations, or if for any reason the school ceases to be accepted by the Permanent 
Secretary as an aided school, the sponsor may be required to repay the whole amount 
of grant to the Government or an equitable proportion of such grant as assessed by the 
Government. 
 
(d) 
That in the event of any breach or non-performance of any of the terms, covenants and 
conditions contained in the Deed of Covenant, it shall be lawful for the Government to 
re-enter upon the lot and the school without the payment of any compensation 
whatsoever. 
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
112 
Appendix 18 
Notes on Grant for Capital Cost for Building 
(for Projects exceeding $50 million) 
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
 
Procedures Concerning Application for the Non-recurrent Grant for Capital Cost for Building 
1. 
Subject to funding and policy, the Permanent Secretary may approve non-recurrent grant 
towards the capital cost for the extension or redevelopment of existing school premises. 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
2. 
The application for the grant for capital cost for building by the School Management 
Committee (the Applicant) should give full justification for the proposal, including the 
proposed scope, the estimated cost, and the amount the Applicant will contribute. In addition, 
the Applicant must state in its application whether it intends to carry out the project by private 
contract under government subvention. The Applicant should state whether a grant of site is 
required from the Government or whether the proposed project is to be built on land already 
available. For a proposed project on private land, the Applicant should check with the relevant 
District Lands Office that the lease conditions of the land will permit the proposed 
development. A statement regarding the land title, signed by the trustee or the legal 
representative of the grantee should be forwarded with the proposal to the Permanent 
Secretary for consideration. This statement should show the location, lot number of the areas 
to be used. All expenditure prior to notification in writing by the Permanent Secretary of the 
approval of the non-recurrent grant will be the sole liability of the Applicant. (updated on 1 
September 2016) 
 
3. 
Consideration and approval for non-recurrent grant is subject to the conditions set out by the 
Permanent Secretary. Funding consideration is subject to resource allocation and the Finance 
Committee of the Legislative Council. The proposed project should be carried out in 
accordance with the requirements of the prevailing subvention policy and conditions set out 
by the Permanent Secretary.  
 
4. 
Non-subvented portion if required by the Applicant may be included in the project subject to 
approval by the Permanent Secretary even when the full cost required, including consultancy 
and construction, etc., for the non-subvented portion is borne by the Applicant. Such non-
subvented portion and the related cost will not be eligible for recurrent or non-recurrent 
subsidy from the Government.  
 
5. 
Subject to justification for the proposal, the Permanent Secretary will issue a project 
definition statement to the Works Agent for feasibility study and follow up action. The 
Permanent Secretary will issue the project definition statement direct to the Applicant opted 
to carry out the project under private contract. Under this self-delivery mode, the Applicant 
will be responsible for preparing a Technical Feasibility Statement for submission to the 
Education Bureau for comment and approval.  
 
6. 
Upon written approval of the Technical Feasibility Statement and confirmation to proceed 
with the pre-tender works, the Applicant can obtain technical and fee proposals for 
architectural and associated consultancy services and quantity surveying consultancy services. 
Only registered consultants should be invited for tender and the invitation documents should 
be forwarded to the Permanent Secretary for comment.  
 
7. 
The Applicant should submit recommendations for appointment of consultants to the 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
113 
Permanent Secretary for approval on the recommendations of Architectural Services 
Department (ArchSD). The technical proposal and fee proposal are to be kept distinctly 
separated. Any opening of fee proposals prior to the Education Bureau/ArchSD examination 
of the technical marking will immediately invalidate the tender or disqualify the tender from 
subvention. The recommended technical and fee proposals should not be accepted until 
written approval is given by the Permanent Secretary. The Applicant should also submit 
tender documents for various pre-tender works like site investigation for approval before 
commissioning the contracts.  
 
8. 
The Applicant should only proceed into the post-contract stage upon the written notification 
of the Finance Committee’s funding approval. Prior to issue of tender for construction work, 
the Applicant should forward a list of proposed tenderers together with the draft tender 
documents for the ArchSD’s comment and the Education Bureau’s approval.  
 
9. 
For post-contract works, a minimum of ten tenderers should be invited to tender. The 
Applicant should require the tenderers to deposit their tenders into the Public Works Tender 
Board’s (PWTB) Tender Box. In this regard, the Applicant should give advance notice to the 
Secretary of the PWTB of the works and the tender closing date. The tender closing date and 
time must be set at noon on a Friday not being a public holiday. Upon receipt of tenders, the 
Applicant will be informed by PWTB for collection of tenders.  
 
10. The Applicant should submit the tender recommendation to the Education Bureau for 
approval. It should be noted that without exceptionally valid justifications, the Applicant is 
required to accept the lowest complying tenders. The Applicant must not accept any tender 
unless there is prior approval from the Permanent Secretary. The school shall be liable for all 
the consequences of accepting tenders in excess of the approved project estimates without 
prior approval from the Education Bureau.  
 
11. Any financial commitment accepted without the prior approval of the Permanent Secretary 
shall be the sole responsibility of the sponsor. After the Permanent Secretary has given 
approval for the recommended tender, the Applicant may arrange for the signing of the 
contract and the commencement of construction work in accordance with the terms of the 
contract. A copy of the signed contract should be submitted to the Permanent Secretary for 
record.  
 
12. When a project is not fully financed through the capital subvention, the school should use up 
its agreed contribution or any other payment arrangement as referred to in the Letter of 
Approval (excluding contribution to provide furniture and equipment, if applicable) before 
requesting payment of the subvention. If the total tender price is higher than the estimated 
construction cost of the school as referred to in the Letter of Approval, the school should also 
absorb the difference according to the payment arrangement as stated in the Letter of 
Approval.  
 
13. Where the new building or extension is to be erected on private land, the trustees or legal 
representatives of the sponsor must execute under seal and register by Memorial in the Lands 
Department a Deed of Covenant which shall contain such provisions as the Permanent 
Secretary may require, and shall in particular provide the following : - 
 
(a) 
That the premises will be used solely for approved educational purposes or other 
purposes approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
That the school will be managed in accordance with the Education Ordinance and its 
subsidiary legislation and the Code of Aid for Primary Schools.  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
114 
 
(c) 
That if the sponsor should at any time desire to be released from the foregoing 
obligations, or if for any reason the school ceases to be accepted by the Permanent 
Secretary as an aided school, the sponsor may be required to repay the whole amount 
of grant to the Government or an equitable proportion of such grant as assessed by the 
Government. 
 
(d) 
That in the event of any breach or non-performance of any of the terms, covenants and 
conditions contained in the Deed of Covenant, it shall be lawful for the Government to 
re-enter upon the lot and the school without the payment of any compensation 
whatsoever.  
 
14. Payment of capital subvention to a school is subject to the conditions stated in the Letter of 
Approval issued by the Permanent Secretary to the school receiving the subvention. Interim 
payment of building grant may be requested after the agreed contribution of the school 
towards the building cost has been fully expended. Requests for payment by the Applicant 
must be supported by properly receipted bills and where an architect is employed, by the 
architect's certificate to the effect that the work for which payment is claimed, has been 
satisfactorily completed. Where circumstances justify e.g. the original receipts, invoices or 
certificates submitted are found not acceptable, the Permanent Secretary could cease to make 
payment of subvention to the school and the school shall repay partly or fully the subvention 
received if required by the Permanent Secretary.  
 
15. The final submission of original invoices and receipts for works should be made to the 
Permanent Secretary within the Period of Final Measurement as stated in the building contract 
(usually 12 months from the date of practical completion of the project). Under normal 
circumstances, the account of the project should be closed as soon as possible and in any 
event within three years from the handover of the completed school building.  
 
16. Current consultancy guidelines mandate Bills of Quantities. It should also be noted that all 
materials and workmanship for any works must be in accordance with the latest edition of the 
"General Specification for Buildings" published by the ArchSD. 
 
17. For 
projects 
of 
$50 
million 
and 
below 
please 
refer 
to 
Appendix 
17.          
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
 
The above serves the purpose of a general guide which will be revised from time to time in 
accordance with the prevailing policy and practice. 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
115 
Appendix 19 
 
School Assets and Settlement of Claims 
 
(A) 
Procedures for Assessment and Settlement of Claims for Damage or Destruction of Standard 
Items Caused by Fire, Natural Disaster or Perils 
 
1. 
When there is a fire or natural disaster or an occurrence of the perils as described in 
section 42(a) in an aided school, the Supervisor/Head of the school, apart from 
reporting the incident immediately to the relevant government departments such as the 
Hong Kong Police Force and the Fire Services Department, must also report the matter 
immediately to the respective Senior School Development Officer who will arrange a 
joint inspection with the Senior Supplies Officer of the Education Bureau and officers 
of other relevant government departments such as the Architectural Services 
Department, Water Supplies Department etc. to conduct a preliminary investigation at 
the earliest opportunity. The purpose of the visit is to identify the extent of damage 
caused. In the case of fire, a report from the Fire Services Department on the incident 
will also be necessary.  
 
2. 
Based on the report of the school, the estimated cost of replacement of furniture and 
equipment and repairs to the school premises will be assessed, which will form the 
basis for determining the amount of subsidy to be paid to the school by the Government. 
 
3. 
The full cost of damage or loss caused by fire or natural disasters or resulting from the 
described perils in Section 42(a) will be paid to schools on the basis of the approved 
tendered cost or the actual cost, whichever is lower. 
 
4. 
Once the amount of subsidy is determined and approved, the school authority will be 
advised to proceed with the purchase of furniture and equipment for replacement in 
accordance with the standard tendering procedures. As regards the damage to school 
buildings, all repairs will be treated as emergency repairs and the standard procedures 
as stipulated in Appendix 17 should be followed. 
 
(B) 
Procedures for Assessment and Settlement of Claims for Losses of Standard Furniture and 
Equipment Caused by Theft and Burglary 
 
5. 
When there is a loss of standard items in an aided school, the Supervisor/Head of the 
school must report the loss immediately to the nearest police station of the Hong Kong 
Police Force and make a preliminary report to the respective Senior School 
Development Officer who will arrange a joint inspection with the Senior Supplies 
Officer of the Education Bureau to conduct a preliminary investigation at the earliest 
opportunity. The purpose of the visit is to identify any security problems. An 
investigation report from the Hong Kong Police Force on the incident will be required.  
 
6. 
The Supervisor/Head of the aided school will then proceed to investigate the loss fully 
and as soon as practicable, forward his detailed report with the following information, 
together with copies of other relevant documents, e.g. police reports, to the respective 
Senior School Development Officer as appropriate:- 
 
(a) details of the occurrence, including date, time, detailed description and cost 
(original/replacement) of furniture/equipment found lost; 
 
(b)  progress of internal investigation; and  

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
116 
 
(c)  recommendations for clearing the loss and any action considered necessary to 
prevent a similar occurrence. 
 
7. 
Supervisor/Head of school is required to certify in each case that no fraud, suspected 
fraud, negligence or violation of an important point of principle is involved. 
 
8. 
Based on the reports of the school and the result of investigation by the Police and 
officers concerned, the estimated cost of replacement of furniture and equipment lost 
will be assessed, with the recommendation by the relevant officer, which will form the 
basis for determining the amount of subsidy to be paid to the school by the Government.  
 
9. 
The full cost of loss will be paid to schools on the basis of the approved tendered cost 
or the actual cost, whichever is lower.  
 
10. However, once the amount of subsidy is determined and approved, the school authority 
will be advised to proceed with the purchase of furniture and equipment for 
replacement in accordance with the standard tendering procedures. 
 
Security Measures 
 
11. Supervisors of aided schools should take necessary security measures to protect the 
schools' assets against all perils mentioned above. Special attention should be paid to 
security measures against theft, burglary or robbery, particularly for movable assets 
such as cash and equipment. 
 
12. Supervisors are reminded that petty cash (Government portion and school portion, if 
any) kept in schools should not exceed the limits prescribed in the Circular currently in 
force. In case there is a claim of loss in petty cash caused by the aforesaid perils, the 
amount of claim should be the actual amount lost or the prescribed limit, whichever is 
lower. It is also advisable that collections and payments should be made through bank 
accounts as far as possible to minimise the risk of cash losses. Cash collections, if any, 
should be banked as soon as practicable to reduce the risk of keeping or transporting 
cash in large sums. 
 
13. When it is necessary to transport cash, the following security measures are suggested :  
 
(a) If the amount exceeds $5,000 but is less than $10,000, two persons are required to 
escort the cash.  
 
(b) If the amount exceeds $10,000, commercial security guards should be hired.  
 
 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
117 
INDEX 
 
TOPIC 
  
SECTION (S)/APPENDIX (A) 
Accepting donations 
S.17 
Accounts of private section 
S.73 
Accounts, school 
S.66-S.69 
Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
S.20, A.2B 
Administrative Guide 
A.1 
Admission, pupils 
S.43, A.1 
Allowances 
A.3 
Appointment, additional managers 
S.4 
Appointment, additional posts for specialised teaching 
A.2A 
Appointment, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers 
S.50-S.53, S.58, A.2A, A.4/Attachment M 
Appointment, clerical staff 
S.33, A.4/Attachment O 
Appointment, educational psychologists 
S.50-S.53, A.2A, A.4/Attachment J-K 
Appointment, school-based speech therapists 
S.50-S.53, S.58, A.2A, A.4/Attachment L 
Appointment, school executive officers 
S.50, S.52-S.53, S.58, A.2A, 
A.4/Attachment N 
Appointment, head 
S.50(a), A.4/Attachment A-C 
Appointment, janitor staff 
S.20, A.2B 
Appointment, primary school curriculum leader 
A.2A 
Appointment, senior teacher post of English 
A.2A, A.5 
Appointment, teacher librarian 
A.2A 
Appointment, teaching staff 
S.50-S.54, A.2A, A.4/Attachment A-I 
Audited accounts, submission 
S.70-S.71 
Block Insurance Policy 
S.42 
Building Grants 
A.18 
Calculation of Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
A.2B 
Calculation of Salaries Grant 
S.19 
Charging Subscriptions (Tong Fai) 
S.14(a) 
Chest X-ray examination 
S.51 
Class structure 
S.12(b) 
Clerical staff, appointment 
S.20, S.33, A.2B 
Collection of Subscriptions (Tong Fai) 
S.15 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
S.8(a), S.37, A.15 
Conditions for promotion 
S.60-S.61, A.5 
Conditions of appointment, clerical staff 
A.2B, A.4/Attachment O 
Contract of service, teaching staff 
S.55 
Curriculum and Time-table 
A.1 
Damage, settlement of claims 
S.42, A.19 
Dismissal, teaching staff 
S.57(g), A.6-A.7 
Dismissal/termination of appointment of a teacher 
S.57, A.6-A.7 
Donations, acceptance 
S.17 
Educational psychologists, appointment 
S.50-S.53, S.58, A.2A, A.4/Attachment J-K 
Educational psychologists, chest X-ray examination 
S.51 
Educational psychologists, increments for experience 
S.25 
Educational psychologists, maternity leave 
S.26(a), A.10 
Educational psychologists, medical examination 
S.51 
Educational psychologists, no-pay leave 
S.28 
Educational psychologists, paid annual leave 
S.34(a), A.11A 
Educational psychologists, paid leave to serve as jurors 
S.26(b) 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
118 
Educational psychologists, paid study leave 
S.27 
Educational psychologists, paternity leave 
S26(a), S34(e), A.9 
Educational psychologists, promotion 
S.61, A.4/Attachment J-K, A.5 
Educational psychologists, qualifications for appointment 
S.53, A.4/Attachment J-K 
Educational psychologists, retirement 
S.59(a-b) 
Educational psychologists, Salaries Grant 
S.19 
Educational psychologists, salary scales 
A.3 
Educational psychologists, sick leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Educational psychologists, special tuberculosis leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Employment, supply teachers 
S.31, A.3 
Employment, temporary clerk 
S.34(d) 
Employment, temporary replacements 
S.32 
Expansion of aided schools 
S.12(a) 
Expenditure of school income 
S.16 
Fees 
S.13-S.14 
Furniture & Equipment, tender  
A.16 
Furniture & Equipment, non-recurrent grants 
A.16 
Grants 
S.7-S.8 
Head, appointment 
S.50(a), A.4/Attachment A-C 
Head, paid study leave 
S.30 
Increments for experience 
S.24-S.25 
Initial grant for school-based psychological service 
S.39(b) 
Initial grant for Enhanced School-based Speech Therapy Service 
S.39(c) 
Insurance 
S.42 
Janitor staff, appointment 
S.20, A.2B 
Letting of premises 
S.18 
Major Repairs, non-recurrent grants 
A.17 
Maternity leave, clerical staff paid out of Salaries Grant 
S.34(c), A.12 
Maternity leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, teachers 
S.26(a), A.10 
Medical examination, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists, teachers 
S.51 
No-pay leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, teachers 
S.28 
Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
S.8(b), S.39-S.40, A.16, A.17, A.18 
Non-teaching staff, Provident Fund 
S.65 
Notice on termination of service, teaching staff 
S.57(a-e) 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
S.8(a), S.36, A.14 
Outside duties 
S.63 
Paid annual leave, educational psychologists 
S.34(a), A.11A 
Paid annual leave, school-based speech therapists 
S.34(a), A.11B 
Paid annual leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers 
S.34(a), A.11C 
Paid annual leave, school executive officers 
S.34(a), A.11D 
Paid annual leave, clerical staff paid out of Salaries Grant 
S.34(a), A.11E 
Paid study leave, head 
S.30 
Paid study leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, teachers 
S.27 
Paid sick leave, clerical staff paid out of Salaries Grant 
S.34(b) 
Payment of Salaries 
S.22-S.23, A.8 
Payment of Salaries Grant 
S.19 
Premises, letting 
S.18 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, appointment 
S.50-S.53, S.58, A.2A, A.4/Attachment M 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, chest X-ray examination 
S.51 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, increments for experience 
S.25 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
119 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, maternity leave 
S.26(a), A.10 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, medical examination 
S.51 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, no-pay leave 
S.28 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, paid annual leave 
S.34(a), A.11C 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, paid leave to serve as jurors 
S.26(b) 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, paid study leave 
S.27 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, paternity leave 
S26(a), S34(e), A.9 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, qualifications for appointment 
S.53, A.4/Attachment M 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, retirement 
S.59(a-b) 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, Salaries Grant 
S.19  
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, salary scales 
A.3  
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, sick leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, special tuberculosis leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Primary School Master/Mistress Grade Structure 
A.2A 
Private section, accounts 
S.73 
Probationary period, teachers 
S.56 
Procedures, Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
S.39(a)-S.40, A.16, A.17, A.18 
Promotion, educational psychologists 
S.61, A.4/Attachment J-K, A.5 
Promotion, teachers 
S.60, A.4-A.5 
Provident Fund, non-teaching staff 
S.65 
Provident Fund, teachers 
S.64, A.13 
Pupils, admission 
S.43, A.1 
Pupils, suspension and expulsion 
S.45, A.1 
Qualifications for appointment, educational psychologists 
S.53, A.4/Attachment J-K 
Qualifications for appointment, school-based speech therapists 
S.53, A.4/Attachment L 
Qualifications for appointment, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers 
S.53, A.4/Attachment M 
Qualifications for appointment, school executive officers 
S.53, A.4/Attachment N 
Qualifications for appointment, teachers 
S.53, A.4/Attachment A-I 
Recurrent Grants 
S.8(a) 
Reduction of Grants 
S.10 
Refund of Grants 
S.10(c), S.11, S.74 
Regrading of staff 
S.60 
Rent and Rates Grant 
S.38 
Resignation, teachers 
S.57(d-e) 
Retirement, clerical staff paid out of salaries grant 
S.59(c) 
Retirement, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational 
psychologists, school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, teachers 
S.59(a-b) 
Revised Administration Grant/Administration Grant  
S.20, A.2B 
Salaries Grant 
S.19 
Salaries, payment 
S.22-S.23, A.8 
Salary Scales and Allowances 
A.3 
School Accounts 
S.66-S.69 
School premises, use 
S.48 
School-based speech therapists, appointment 
S.50-S.53, S.58, A.2A, A.4/Attachment L 
School-based speech therapists, chest X-ray examination 
S.51 
School-based speech therapists, increments for experience 
S.25 
School-based speech therapists, maternity leave 
S.26(a), A.10 
School-based speech therapists, medical examination 
S.51 
School-based speech therapists, no-pay leave 
S.28 
School-based speech therapists, paid annual leave 
S.34(a), A.11B 
School-based speech therapists, paid leave to serve as jurors 
S.26(b) 
School-based speech therapists, paid study leave 
S.27 
School-based speech therapists, paternity leave 
S26(a), S34(e), A.9 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
120 
School-based speech therapists, qualifications for appointment 
S.53, A.4/Attachment L 
School-based speech therapists, retirement 
S.59(a-b) 
School-based speech therapists, Salaries Grant 
S.19 
School-based speech therapists, salary scales 
A.3 
School-based speech therapists, sick leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
School-based speech therapists, special tuberculosis leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
School Executive Officers, appointment 
S.50, S.52-S.53, S.58, A.2A, 
A.4/Attachment N 
School Executive Officers, increments for experience 
S.25 
School Executive Officers, maternity leave 
S.26(a), A.10 
School Executive Officers, no-pay leave 
S.28 
School Executive Officers, paid annual leave 
S.34(a), A.11D 
School Executive Officers, paid leave to serve as jurors 
S.26(b) 
School Executive Officers, paid study leave 
S.27 
School Executive Officers, paternity leave 
S26(a), S34(e), A.9 
School Executive Officers, qualifications for appointment 
S.53, A.4/Attachment N 
School Executive Officers, retirement 
S.59(a-b) 
School Executive Officers, Salaries Grant 
S.19 
School Executive Officers, salary scales 
A.3 
School Executive Officers, sick leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
School Executive Officers, special tuberculosis leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Senior Teacher Post of English 
A.2A, A.5 
Settlement of claims, damage 
S.42, A.19 
Sick leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, educational psychologists, 
school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, teachers 
S.26(a), A.9 
Special tuberculosis leave, Primary School Assistant Social Work Officers, 
educational psychologists, school-based speech therapists, school executive officers, 
teachers 
S.26(a), A.9 
Special leave, paid 
S.29 
Staff establishment 
S.21, A.2 
Storms and heavy persistent rain 
A.1 
Submission of audited accounts 
S.70-S.71 
Subscriptions (Tong Fai), charge 
S.14(a) 
Subscriptions (Tong Fai), collection 
S.15 
Subscriptions (Tong Fai), transfer 
S.14(b), S.72 
Subsidised Schools Provident Fund 
S.64, A.13 
Supply teachers, employment 
S.31, A.3 
Suspension and expulsion, pupils 
S.45, A.1 
Suspension, teachers 
S.57(f) 
Teaching practice arrangements 
S.47 
Teaching staff, appointment 
S.50-S.54 
Teaching staff, chest X-ray examination 
S.51 
Teaching staff, contract of service 
S.55 
Teaching staff, dismissal 
S.57(g), A.6-A.7 
Teaching staff, increments for experience 
S.24 
Teaching staff, maternity leave 
S.26(a), A.10 
Teaching staff, medical examination 
S.51 
Teaching staff, no-pay leave 
S.28 
Teaching staff, notice on termination of service 
S.57(a-e) 
Teaching staff, outside duties 
S.63 
Teaching staff, paid leave to serve as jurors 
S.26(b) 
Teaching staff, paid study leave 
S.27 
Teaching staff, paternity leave 
S26(a), A.9 
Teaching staff, probationary period 
S.56 

CODE OF AID FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                                               
121 
Teaching staff, promotion 
S.60-S.61, A.4-A.5 
Teaching staff, Provident Fund 
S.64, A.13 
Teaching staff, qualifications for appointment 
S.53, A.4/Attachment A-I 
Teaching staff, retirement 
S.59(a-b) 
Teaching staff, sick leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Teaching staff, special leave with pay 
S.29 
Teaching staff, special tuberculosis leave 
S.26(a), A.9 
Teaching staff, suspension 
S.57(f) 
Temporary clerk, employment 
S.34(d) 
Temporary replacements 
S.32 
Tender, Furniture & Equipment 
A.16 
Transfer of Subscriptions (Tong Fai) 
S.14(b), S.72 
Unqualified teacher, employment 
S.54 
Use of school premises 
S.48 
Withdrawal of Grants 
S.10 
  
  
Note: 
S – Section(s) 
 
 
A – Appendix/Appendices 
 
 
