# source_id: coa_ss_e
# title: 特殊學校資助則例
# fact_type: policy
# topic_tags: hr,finance,general
# url: https://www.edb.gov.hk/attachment/en/sch-admin/regulations/codes-of-aid/coa_ss_e.pdf
# source_type: pdf
# extracted: 20260818
# pipeline: expand_vault.py (auto)
# ============================================================

=== Page 1 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CODE OF AID 
FOR 
SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(NOVEMBER 1998) 

=== Page 2 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
2 
 
 
 
 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Part I 
Contents 
INTRODUCTION 
Interpretation 
Sections 
 
 
1 
Delegation of Power 
2 
Management of Aided Special Schools 
3 
Additional Managers 
4 
Access to Accounts 
5 
Part II 
GRANT OF AID TO SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
Calculation of Grant 
6 
Kinds of Grant 
7 
Permanent Secretary’s Authority 
8 - 14 
Subscriptions 
15 - 16 
Expenditure of Schools Income 
17 
Acceptance of Donations, Rentals 
18 - 19 
RECURRENT GRANTS 
Salaries Grant 
20 
Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
21 
Approved Staff Establishments 
22 
Salaries, Increments and Allowances 
23 - 26 
Classification of Staff in Special Schools 
27 
Leave 
28 - 34 
Supply Teachers & Temporary Replacements 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
35 - 40 
 
41 

=== Page 3 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
3 
 
 
 
 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
42 
Rent and Rates Grants 
43 
 
 
NON-RECURRENT AND CAPITAL GRANTS 
44 - 46 
Insurance 
47 
Part III ADMINISTRATION OF AIDED 
SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
Admission of Pupils 
48 
Suspension & Expulsion of Pupils 
49 
Teaching Practice Arrangements 
50 
Use of School Premises 
51 
Appointment & Dismissal of Staff 
52 
Appointment of Staff 
53 
Conditions of Appointment 
54 - 60 
Termination of Employment 
61 
Appointment of Specialist Staff 
62 
Retirement 
63 
Promotion and Regrading 
64 - 65 
Acting Appointments 
66 
Outside Duties 
67 
Provident Fund 
68 - 69 
School Accounts 
70 - 79 
Part IV 
Appendix 
Part V 
Index 
 
 

=== Page 4 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
4 
 
Purpose of the Code 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Interpretation 
 
1. 
(a) 
This Code of Aid prescribes the rules and conditions in accordance with 
which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
promotes special education by means of grants to such special schools as 
may be approved for this purpose by the Permanent Secretary for 
Education. 
 
(b) 
In this Code of Aid, “Government” means the Government of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region; “Permanent Secretary” means the 
Permanent Secretary for Education. 
 
(c) 
A special school means a school with or without a boarding section which 
provides education suitable for pupils in need of special education 
provision, and which has been approved by the Permanent Secretary for 
this purpose. 
  
Permanent Secretary may delegate powers 
 
2. 
(a) 
A Deputy Secretary for Education may exercise any function of the 
Permanent Secretary under this Code of Aid. 
 
 
(b) 
The Permanent Secretary may authorise any officer of the Education 
Bureau to exercise any function of the Permanent Secretary under any 
provision of this Code of Aid. 
 
 
Management of aided special schools 
 
3. 
A special school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code of Aid shall be 
managed and conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Education 
Ordinance and of subsidiary legislation made under that Ordinance, and in 
compliance with the provisions of this Code of Aid and such instructions 
concerning aided special schools as the Permanent Secretary may from time to 
time issue.  An administrative guide for aided special schools is at Appendix 1. 
 
 
Permanent Secretary may appoint additional managers 
 
4. 
If it appears to the Permanent Secretary - 
 
(a) 
that a school is not being managed satisfactorily or that the education of 
the pupils is not being promoted in a proper manner; or 
 

=== Page 5 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
5 
 
(b) 
that the composition of the School Management Committee is such that 
the school is not likely to be managed satisfactorily, or is such that the 
education of the pupils is not likely to be promoted in a proper manner; or 
(c) 
that for any reason a school has no manager, he may appoint one or more 
persons to be additional managers of the school for such period as he 
thinks fit. 
  
Director of Audit and Commissioner Against Corruption to have right of access 
to records and accounts 
 
5. 
As a condition of grant, the Director of Audit and the Commissioner Against 
Corruption or any officer duly authorised by them may, if they consider it 
necessary in the public interest, have access to the records and accounts of a 
school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code of Aid and to the records 
and accounts of any controlling or any other agencies to which money from the 
school is diverted which is directly or indirectly involved with the expenditure 
of public money, or special funds established for educational development out 
of income of such a school derived otherwise than from Government grants.  In 
this connection, the staff of a school or of any controlling or any other agencies 
to which money from the school is diverted will be obliged to explain to the 
Director of Audit and the Commissioner Against Corruption or to their 
authorised representatives, any matter relating to the receipt, expenditure or 
custody of money for which the school or any controlling or any other agencies 
to which money from the school is diverted or both are accountable in the public 
interest. 

=== Page 6 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
6 
 
II. 
GRANT OF AID TO SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Government aid and fees to be calculated so as to enable special schools to 
provide education of an acceptable standard 
 
6. 
The kinds of grant necessary to cover the normal expenditure of an aided special 
school shall be calculated in such a way that such grants together with the 
income from tuition fees and boarding fees, in those schools where such fees 
are chargeable, should in general be sufficient to enable an aided special school 
to provide education of a standard acceptable to the Permanent Secretary, 
subject to the provisions of this Code of Aid. 
 
 
Grants of specified kinds 
 
7. 
Aid to special schools may consist of one or more of the following grants: 
 
(a) 
Recurrent Grants - 
(i) 
Salaries Grant 
(ii) 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
(iii) 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
(iv) 
Rent and Rates Grants 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
(b) 
Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
 
(c) 
Non-recurrent Grants for curriculum development 
 
 
Permanent Secretary to determine grants 
 
8. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary shall, after making such inquiries as he 
considers necessary, determine to which special schools grants are to be 
made, and shall determine the kind and amount of grant to be made to 
each such school. 
 
 
(b) 
The Permanent Secretary may withdraw a grant wholly or in part if he is 
satisfied that the special school to which the grant was made is no longer 
in need of such grant or part of such grant. 
 
 
Powers of the Permanent Secretary to reduce or withdraw grants 
 
9. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary may, if it appears to him that the School 
Management Committee is not managing the special school satisfactorily, 
or that the education of the pupils is not being promoted in a proper 
manner, or that the class structure is not being organised in such a manner 
as may be determined by the Permanent Secretary from time to time in 
accordance with Section 11(b) below, reduce or withdraw any grant made 
to such school.  The Permanent Secretary shall cause a notice in writing 
to be served on the School Management Committee, setting out the 
grounds on which it appears to him that the special school is not being 
managed satisfactorily, or that the education of the pupils is not being 

=== Page 7 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
7 
 
promoted in a proper manner, or that the class structure is not being 
organised in accordance with Section 11(b) below; and giving formal 
warning that consideration is being given to reduction or withdrawal of 
grants. 
 
 
(b) 
If, after a period of three months from the date of the notice specified in 
(a), the Permanent Secretary is satisfied that the School Management 
Committee is not managing the special school satisfactorily, or that the 
education of the pupils is not being promoted in a proper manner, or that 
the class structure is not being organised in accordance with Section 11(b) 
below, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served on the School 
Management Committee, stating his intention to reduce or withdraw the 
grant at the termination of a period of three months from the date of such 
notice. 
 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding (a) and (b) above, the Permanent Secretary may, in cases 
where he is satisfied that there has been serious financial irregularity, 
reduce or withdraw any grant as he deems fit.  The Permanent Secretary 
may require the School Management Committee to refund to the 
Government all building, special expenditure or recurrent grants received, 
or an equitable proportion of such grants as assessed by the Government. 
 
 
Grants to be refunded in certain circumstances 
 
10. 
(a) 
If the School Management Committee wishes to cease to manage and 
conduct the school under the terms of this Code of Aid, it shall give to the 
Permanent Secretary three months’ notice in writing of such intention, and 
may be required on the termination of such three months’ notice, to refund 
to the Government all Recurrent and Non-recurrent Grants or an equitable 
proportion of such grants as assessed by the Government. 
 
 
(b) 
The Permanent Secretary may, if for any reason a special school ceases to 
be granted aid under the terms of this Code of Aid, require the School 
Management Committee to refund to the Government all Recurrent and 
Non-recurrent Grants received, or an equitable proportion of such grants 
as assessed by the Government. 
 
 
Permanent Secretary to approve expansion 
 
11. 
(a) 
No additional aid shall be granted in respect of the expansion of an aided 
special school, unless such expansion has received the approval of the 
Permanent Secretary in writing. 
 
 
(b) 
The class structure of the special school shall be such as may be 
determined by the Permanent Secretary from time to time in the light of 
public interest and with due regard to the accommodation and facilities 
available in the school and after full consultation with the School 
Management Committee. 
 
 
 

=== Page 8 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
8 
 
Permanent Secretary to approve fees 
 
12. 
Unless otherwise permitted in writing by the permanent Secretary, no fees shall 
be charged in a special school in receipt of aid under the terms of this Code of 
Aid.  Boarding fees charged in a special school which is in receipt of aid under 
the terms of this Code of Aid shall be subject to approval by the Permanent 
Secretary.  Boarding fees for aided special schools will be announced by circular.  
(updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
Method of payment of fees 
 
13. 
Unless otherwise permitted in writing by the Permanent Secretary, boarding fees 
shall be collected on or after the first school day of each month during which 
the pupil is resident in the special school.  (updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
Fee remission 
 
14. 
The School Head may approve fee remission of boarding fees in respect of 
students in need, and shall maintain a register of such remissions.  The students’ 
eligibility certificates may be used as reference to assess their eligibility for the 
fee remission.  The permitted level of fee remission of boarding fees is 10% of 
the total fee income which means the maximum fee payable times the approved 
enrolment.  However, approval may be sought to vary the level of fee remission 
in special cases.  (updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
Subscriptions 
 
Permanent Secretary may allow Subscriptions to be charged 
 
15. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary may permit a special school to charge 
Subscriptions for expenditure on school and educational needs.  The 
amount of such Subscriptions in each special school shall be subject to the 
approval of the Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
(b) 
No Subscriptions should be charged in Primary Classes and in Secondary 
1 - 3.  (updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
(c) 
A special school may not transfer income arising from Subscriptions to 
any other body, or to a fund separately kept by the sponsoring body for 
educational development or any other purpose, unless such transfer has 
been approved by the Permanent Secretary in writing. 
 
 
(d) 
Schools are given the discretion to collect fines, charges and fees for 
specific purposes as may be determined by the Permanent Secretary from 
time to time.  Any other collections will still require separate approval of 
the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 

=== Page 9 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
9 
 
Method of payment of Subscriptions 
 
16. 
Unless otherwise permitted in writing by the Permanent Secretary, the amount 
of Subscriptions shall be collected in ten equal instalments payable on or after 
the first school day of each of the months from September to June inclusive; 
provided that Supervisors may, if they wish, require payment of the September 
instalment not earlier than 1 August. 
 
 
Income to be used for provision of facilities in the school 
 
17. 
(a) 
Schools are given the discretion to use the Subscriptions (Tong Fai)/ 
General Funds Account to meet educational and school needs.  The School 
Management Committee should consider requiring the school to draw up 
a list of items to be charged to the Subscriptions (Tong Fai)/ General 
Funds Account and providing procedural guides for their school to use the 
funds. 
 
 
(b) 
In special schools where no fee is charged, all income from non-
government sources shall be placed in the General Funds Account. 
 
 
Acceptance of donations 
 
18. 
(a) 
The acceptance of donations by schools should be approved by the School 
Management Committee.  Prior approval from the Permanent Secretary is 
required only when the donations incur recurrent Government expenditure.  
All such income must be properly reflected in the Subscriptions Account.  
(updated on 1 November 2013) 
 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee should note that before donations are 
accepted it must be fully satisfied that there is no connection between the 
donation and any student’s standing or possible future standing in the 
special school and that the offers of donations from commercial concerns 
cannot be interpreted in any way as inducements. 
 
 
Other income to be taken into account 
 
19. 
When an aided special school lets any part or all of its premises for any purposes, 
the rental or profit so received shall be credited to the school's accounts in such 
proportion as determined by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 10 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
10 
 
RECURRENT GRANTS 
 
(I) 
Salaries Grant 
 
Salaries Grant to cover approved salaries 
 
20. 
(a) 
The approved Salaries Grant will be paid monthly and will consist of the 
approved salaries for all teaching staff and all other staff, except for 
clerical and janitor staff under the Administration Grant or janitor staff 
under the Revised Administration Grant, employed in accordance with the 
terms of this Code of Aid.  To reconcile the grants already paid out with 
the actual approved expenditure, adjustment of over or under payment 
may be made from time to time, but the final adjustment for the accounting 
year, or the financial year as the case may be, will be made after the 
submission of audited annual accounts.  (updated on 1 September 2009) 
 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee shall be responsible for the 
arrangement of rectifying any overpayment or underpayment of salaries 
with the staff concerned. 
 
 
(c) 
The payment of Salaries Grant in respect of staff provided for a particular 
purpose will be dependent on the effective carrying-out of that purpose. 
 
 
Administration Grant/Revised Administration Grant 
 
21. 
(a) 
For the employment of clerical and janitor staff, schools are given an 
option to choose between the Administration Grant and the Revised 
Administration Grant to meet their specific needs. 
 
(i) 
For a school that has elected to receive the Administration Grant, 
the salaries for the clerical and janitor staff employed will be paid 
out of the Administration Grant.  The School Management 
Committee shall be responsible for the appointment, dismissal, 
salaries and terms of service of these non-teaching staff. 
 
(ii) 
For a school that has elected to receive the Revised 
Administration Grant, the salaries of the janitor staff will be paid 
through the Revised Administration Grant, while the approved 
salaries of the clerical staff will be paid through the Salaries 
Grant as provided under Section 20(a).  The School Management 
Committee shall be responsible for the appointment, dismissal, 
salaries and terms of service of the janitor staff. 
(iii) 
The School Management Committee shall notify the Permanent 
Secretary promptly of the change of clerical or janitor staff and 
specify the effective date. 
Both the Administration Grant and the Revised Administration Grant 
can also be used for procuring ancillary services (e.g. the cleaning of the 
school premises) by contract.  Schools which have opted for the Revised 
Administration Grant may opt for the Administration Grant if they so 
prefer.  The option once exercised in favour of the Administration Grant 
is final and irrevocable. 
 

=== Page 11 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
11 
 
(b) 
The Administration Grant and the Revised Administration Grant, being 
constituent grants of the Operating Expenses Block Grant introduced 
with effect from the 2000/01 school year, shall have their rates adjusted 
annually thereafter with reference to the mid-point salary of an entitled 
clerical post and the maximum point salary of the janitor post at the 
September 1999 level.  The annual adjustment shall be in accordance 
with the movement of the Composite Consumer Price Index. 
 
(c) 
The clerical and janitor staff entitlements of a school determined 
according to the respective scales shown at Appendix 2 shall be used for 
the purpose of calculating the amount of the Administration Grant or the 
Revised Administration Grant where appropriate.  A school that opts for 
the Revised Administration Grant will be required to follow the 
conditions of appointment for the clerical staff shown at Appendix 4. 
 
 
Approved establishments 
 
22. 
Approved establishments for teachers and other staff are shown at Appendix 2. 
 
 
Approved salary scales and allowances 
 
23. 
Expenditure on account of salaries and allowances will be allowed for grant 
purposes at the rates laid down at Appendix 3 or as otherwise approved by the 
Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
Date of commencement and of cessation of salaries of staff 
 
24. 
Salaries of all staff shall normally commence from the date of assumption of 
full duties, and shall normally cease immediately after the last day of 
performance of full duties, except as provided for at Appendix 9. 
 
 
Increments may be granted or withheld 
 
25. 
(a) 
Increments in salary for staff will normally be given by the School 
Management Committee when they fall due.  Increments for part-time 
teachers will be based on the due proportion of the full-time scale, and 
will be given on an annual basis when they fall due. 
 
(b) 
When it appears to the School Management Committee that the service of 
a member of the staff has been unsatisfactory, the School Management 
Committee may, subject to approval by the Permanent Secretary, withhold 
an annual increment.  In such case, the School Management Committee 
shall notify the Permanent Secretary in writing of its intention to withhold 
the increment and its reasons for so doing, and shall notify the member of 
staff in writing of its intention to withhold the increment.  Such 
notification to the Permanent Secretary and to the member of staff shall 
normally be given three months before the incremental date. 
 
 
 

=== Page 12 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
12 
 
Permanent Secretary may specify recognised experience for incremental credit 
on appointment 
 
26. 
(a) 
On appointment to an aided special school, a teacher shall receive 
incremental credit or full-time or part-time previous teaching experience 
on the basis of one increment for each year of full-time service or the 
equivalent in aggregated part-time service in - 
(i) 
a government school; 
(ii) 
an aided school; 
(iii) 
a caput school/school under the Direct Subsidy Scheme; 
(iv) 
an assisted private school on or after 1 January 1966; or 
(v) 
a private school offering formal curriculum on or after 1 
September 1971. 
 
 
 
Service in assisted private schools prior to 1 January 1966 and in private 
schools offering formal curriculum prior to 1 September 1971 shall be 
credited on the basis of one increment for two years full-time service or 
the equivalent in an aggregated part-time service.  Only post-qualification 
experience which is supported by documentary evidence and acceptable 
to the Permanent Secretary shall be counted for the purpose of increments. 
Service in schools outside Hong Kong shall be assessed for the purpose 
of increments at the discretion of the Permanent Secretary and increments 
may also be awarded for approved training as shown at Appendix 4. 
 
 
(b) 
Incremental credit for experience on appointment in the case of other 
professional staff of a special school may be awarded in accordance with 
the above principles, where applicable. 
 
 
(c) 
School executive officers on appointment to an aided school shall receive 
incremental credit if the employees have worked, in or after the 2019/20 
school year, as - 
(i) 
school executive officer in aided schools and remunerated under 
the Salaries Grant or the School Executive Officer Grant;  
(ii) 
school administrative executive in government schools under a 
non-civil service contract;  
(iii) 
school executive officer in caput schools and DSS schools; 
(iv) 
school executive officer hired by service providers to station in 
aided schools/caput schools/DSS schools.  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

=== Page 13 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
13 
 
Classification of Staff 
 
Classification of staff in special schools 
 
27. 
For the purpose of Sections 28 - 40 of this Code of Aid, with regard to leave 
conditions and replacement staff, staff in special schools are classified as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
Teachers 
 
All staff in the teaching grades, including head teachers, teachers 
assisting in speech therapy (TAST), resource teachers, mobility 
instructors and low-vision training teachers. 
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
(b) 
Laboratory Technicians 
 
(c) 
Non-teaching staff 
 
(i) 
Specialist staff including school social workers, speech therapists, 
physiotherapists, occupational therapists, occupational therapy 
assistants, educational psychologists, nurses, wardens, assistant 
wardens, houseparents-in-charge, houseparents, programme 
workers and brailling staff. 
 
(ii) 
Non-specialist staff including clerks class II/assistant clerical 
officers, clerical assistants, artisans, workshop attendants, drivers, 
cooks, watchmen, janitor staff and teacher assistants.   
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(iii) 
School executive officer 
 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
Leave 
 
Sick/maternity/special tuberculosis/paternity leave and paid leave as jurors or 
when required to appear in court as witnesses 
 
28. 
(a) 
In respect of teachers, laboratory technicians, specialist staff and school 
executive officers, the School Management Committee may grant - 
 
(i) 
in accordance with the conditions specified at Appendices 10 
and 11, the following types of leave: 
(a) 
sick leave (paid and no-pay); 
(b) 
maternity leave (paid and no-pay);  
(c) 
special tuberculosis leave (paid and no-pay); and 
(d) 
paternity leave. 
and 
(ii) 
paid leave to those selected to serve as jurors and those required 
to appear in court as witnesses. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

=== Page 14 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
14 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may, in accordance with the 
conditions specified at Appendices 10 and 11, grant the following types 
of leave to non-teaching non-specialist staff paid out of the Salaries 
Grant - 
(i) 
sick leave (paid and no-pay);  
(ii) 
maternity leave (paid and no-pay); and 
(iii) 
paternity leave. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve paid study leave to staff 
 
29. 
(a) 
Any teacher, laboratory technician, specialist staff or school executive 
officer in an aided special school selected by the Permanent Secretary 
for a course of training may continue to receive full salary for the 
approved period of study leave. 
 
 
(b) 
Teachers, laboratory technicians, specialist staff or school executive 
officers in an aided special school attending such other course as the 
Permanent Secretary may have approved may receive, for the approved 
period of study leave, full salary or such proportion of full salary as the 
Permanent Secretary may determine.  No application for paid study 
leave will be considered unless the prior approval of the Permanent 
Secretary has been obtained for the staff to attend the course. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
Leave that requires prior approval of Permanent Secretary 
 
30. 
(a) 
Prior approval of the Permanent Secretary is required in respect of the 
following types of leave to teachers, laboratory technicians, specialist 
staff and school executive officers - 
(i) 
no-pay 
leave 
other 
than 
no-pay 
sick/maternity/special 
tuberculosis leave; 
(ii) 
study leave other than that provided under Section 29, or which 
has not been endorsed by the Permanent Secretary in advance; 
and 
(iii) 
any other kinds of leave not specified in this Code of Aid. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
(b) 
The Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of no-pay leave under 
(a)(i) above to any teacher, laboratory technician, specialist staff, and 
school executive officer of an aided special school recommended for 
such leave by the School Management Committee.  Such no-pay leave 
shall not be counted for the purpose of increments. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
(c) 
When the last day of such no-pay leave is followed by a Sunday or a 
gazetted public holiday, such Sunday or gazetted public holiday will be 
regarded as an extension of the period of no-pay leave. 
 
 
(d) 
When the last day of such no-pay leave of a teacher is followed by the 
major school holidays, i.e. Christmas, Chinese New Year, Easter and 
Summer Vacation, payment of salary will resume on the day the member 

=== Page 15 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
15 
 
of teacher reports to school for duty provided that it is neither a Sunday 
nor a gazetted public holiday.  
 
 
(e) 
When the last day of such no-pay leave is followed by a school holiday 
other than the major school holidays, payment of salary will resume on 
the day following the last day of such no-pay leave provided that it is 
neither a Sunday nor a gazetted public holiday. 
 
 
(f) 
Where, however, no-pay leave has been granted as no-pay maternity, 
sick or special tuberculosis leave, payment of salary will resume on the 
day following the last day of such no-pay leave, notwithstanding that the 
day following the last day of such no-pay leave may be a Sunday or a 
gazetted public holiday. 
 
 
Special Leave 
 
31. 
(a) 
Normally special leave with pay will not be granted to teachers on 
account of personal affairs during the term.  However, in exceptional 
cases, the Supervisor may grant special leave with pay for a maximum 
of 2 days per academic year to teachers on grounds of urgent private 
affairs of grave importance. 
 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may also grant paid leave of not 
more than 14 days to any teacher for each academic year to represent 
HKSAR in national/international conferences or events such as the 
Asian Games and the Olympic Games; or being invited to present paper 
or speak at national/international conferences in connection with 
education or participating in training and camping exercises of Civil Aid 
Service, Auxiliary Medical Service or Auxiliary Police Force.  Sufficient 
grounds and justifications should be produced to support the grant of 
paid leave.  (updated on 12 January 2006) 
 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of paid leave to Heads 
 
32. 
The Permanent Secretary may approve the grant of paid study leave or leave for 
other specially approved purposes to the Head of an aided special school.  While 
the Head is absent on such approved leave exceeding 30 days, the acting Head 
shall receive the appropriate allowance. 
 
 
Leave for laboratory technicians and non-teaching staff 
 
33. 
(a) 
Laboratory technicians and non-teaching staff paid out of the Salaries 
Grant, who do not enjoy school holidays, will be granted full pay leave 
on an annual basis as provided for at Appendix 12.  Such leave shall be 
taken during the major school holidays, subject to mutual agreement 
between the school and the staff.  No replacement will be granted for 
laboratory technicians and non-teaching staff on such leave. 
 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may grant paternity leave up to 5 
working days with full-pay to those laboratory technicians and non-
teaching staff paid out of Salaries Grant with not less than 40 weeks’ 

=== Page 16 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
16 
 
continuous service immediately before taking the paternity leave. 
Schools are required to follow the administration arrangements of 
paternity leave as set out in the prevailing circular available on the 
Education Bureau homepage.  (updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
Endorsement of records of leave granted and inspection of leave records 
 
34. 
(a) 
Records of leave that the School Management Committee may grant to 
teachers shall be submitted in August each year to the Permanent 
Secretary, who will signify his approval to the leave by endorsing the 
relevant leave records, provided that he is satisfied that the School
 Management Committee has considered each leave application with 
supporting documents in accordance with the conditions provided in this 
Code, the Employment Ordinance and the instruction he may from time 
to time issue.  (updated on 12 January 2006) 
 
 
(b) 
Records of leave granted to non-teaching staff should be endorsed by the 
Supervisor on annual basis.  (updated on 12 January 2006) 
 
 
(c) 
Schools should keep the leave records of their teaching and non-teaching 
staff up-to-date.  These records shall be available for inspection by 
officers authorised by the Permanent Secretary as and when required. 
 
 
Supply Teachers and Temporary Replacements 
 
Employment of supply teachers and laboratory technicians 
 
35. 
(a) 
The School Head may, on behalf of the School Management Committee, 
employ supply teachers and laboratory technicians on a daily basis to 
substitute for teachers and laboratory technicians who are absent on 
approved leave for three consecutive calendar days or more and claim 
reimbursement of salaries.  Application for the reimbursement of the 
salaries of supply teachers and laboratory technicians shall be made in a 
prescribed form. 
 
 
(b) 
A supply teacher shall be of the same grade as, or of a lower grade than, 
the teacher for whom he is substituting; except that a qualified teacher 
may be engaged to replace an unqualified teacher in the primary section 
and a non-graduate teacher may be engaged to replace an unqualified 
teacher in the secondary section.  A supply teacher is normally paid on 
fixed daily rates as the Permanent Secretary may determine. 
 
 
(c) 
Supply laboratory technicians shall be paid the daily rate of a non-
graduate teacher, if they hold an approved Laboratory Technician 
Certificate or equivalent, otherwise the daily rate of an unqualified 
teacher shall be paid. 
 
 
(d) 
Service as supply teacher and laboratory technician on a daily basis shall 
not be counted for the purpose of increments or regarded as service for 
any other purposes. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 17 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
17 
 
Employment of temporary replacements for teachers and laboratory technicians 
 
36. 
(a) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacements on monthly terms of the appropriate grade for 
heads, teachers and laboratory technicians who have been granted 
maternity leave, paid sick leave, paid study leave or no-pay leave for a 
period not less than 90 days. 
 
 
(b) 
A temporary replacement on monthly terms may also be approved to fill 
a vacant teacher or laboratory technician post in circumstances where it 
appears to the Permanent Secretary that the appointment of a supply 
teacher or laboratory technician under the terms of Section 35 of this 
Code of Aid would be inappropriate. 
 
 
Employment of temporary replacement for specialist staff and school executive 
officers 
 
37. 
(a) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacement for specialist staff and school executive officers 
who have been granted the following leave for a period not less than 30 
days: paid sick leave, paid leave for other purposes, paid maternity leave, 
paid study leave or no-pay leave. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacement for school nurses in special schools who are on 
approved sick leave, maternity leave, paternity leave or no-pay leave for 
one or more days, or to fill any unfilled vacancies provided that the 
special school has made every effort to fill such vacancies.  Such 
replacement temporary nurses will be paid on fixed daily rates as 
announced in the relevant circular. 
 
 
Employment of temporary replacement for non-specialist staff 
 
38. 
(a) 
For school that has opted for the Revised Administration Grant, the 
School Management Committee may approve the employment of a 
temporary replacement when the clerk is on approved sick leave or 
maternity leave for not less than 14 days.  Such a temporary clerk will 
be paid on fixed daily rates as announced in the relevant circular.  A 
replacement staff substituting for a period not less than 90 days will be 
paid on a monthly basis.  (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacement for drivers in special schools who are on 
approved sick leave, maternity leave, paternity leave or no-pay leave for 
one or more days, or to fill any unfilled vacancies provided that the 
special school has made every effort to fill such vacancies.  Such a 
temporary driver will be paid on fixed daily rates as announced in the 
relevant circular.  A replacement staff substituting for a period of not 
less than 90 days will be paid on a monthly basis.  (updated on 1 September 
2021) 
 

=== Page 18 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
18 
 
 
(c) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacement for teacher assistants in special schools who are 
on approved sick leave or maternity leave for not less than 14 days.  Such 
a temporary teacher assistant will be paid on fixed daily rates as 
announced in the relevant circular.  A replacement staff substituting for 
a period of not less than 90 days will be paid on a monthly basis. 
 
(d) 
The School Management Committee may approve the employment of 
temporary replacement for artisan, workshop attendant and watchman in 
special schools who are on approved sick leave or maternity leave for 
not less than 30 days.  A replacement staff substituting for a period of 
not less than 30 days will be paid on a monthly basis.  (updated on 1 January 
2019) 
 
 
Employment of supply staff for the boarding section 
 
39. 
(a) 
The School Head may, on behalf of the School Management Committee, 
employ supply staff in place of nurses, houseparents and cooks in the 
boarding section if it appears to him/her that their employment is 
necessary to substitute for staff absent on account of sick leave, 
maternity leave, paternity leave or no-pay leave for more than two days, 
or to fill any unfilled vacancies provided that the special school has made 
every effort to fill such vacancies. 
 
 
(b) 
For boarding sections which are fully operational all year round, the 
School Management Committee may approve the employment of relief 
workers to substitute for houseparents, nurses and cooks on annual leave 
if their leave cannot be staggered.  Prior approval of such leave must be 
obtained from the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
(c) 
The daily rates of pay for the above supply staff and relief workers are 
as announced in the relevant circular issued by the Permanent Secretary. 
Application for the reimbursement of the salaries of non-teaching supply 
staff shall be made in a prescribed form. 
 
40. 
The qualifications required for non-teaching supply staff, if applicable, should 
be in accordance with those stipulated at Appendix 4.  Service as non-teaching 
supply staff on a daily basis shall not be counted for the purpose of increments 
or regarded as service for any other purposes. 
 
 
(II) 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
Recurrent block grant to cover operating expenses 
 
41. 
Schools will be provided with the Operating Expenses Block Grant to meet their 
operating expenses.  The Grant consists of various non-salary recurrent grants 
except those items of expenditure which are disbursed on an actual claim or 
reimbursement basis.  It comprises a General Domain under which schools are 
free to set flexibly the allocations for each constituent grant and a Special 
Domain for funds schools can only use for specified purposes.  Surplus of the 
General Domain can be used to top up expenditure on Special Domain items 
and items chargeable to other government subsidies outside the Grant.  The rates 

=== Page 19 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
19 
 
of the Grant will be adjusted annually for price changes in accordance with the 
movement of the Composite Consumer Price Index.  Schools are allowed to 
retain unspent funds up to 12 months’ provision of the Grant.  Given the funding 
flexibility provided under the Grant, schools are required to put in place formal 
procedures for financial planning, monitoring and evaluation of results.  Details 
of the Grant are set out at Appendix 14. 
 
 
(III) 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Recurrent block grant to cover furniture and equipment items 
 
42. 
(a) 
The Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant is a recurrent block grant 
for purchasing furniture and equipment items to meet the needs of 
schools and students.  The Grant also covers maintenance/repairs fees 
for furniture and equipment items and insurance premium for non-
standard furniture and equipment items for school portions.  It will be 
disbursed to schools in a single payment annually on a per-class-per-
annum basis for the school section and on a per-place-per-annum basis 
for the boarding section, if any, and will be adjusted annually in 
accordance with the movement of the Composite Consumer Price Index.  
For a new school, the Grant may be paid in full three years after the 
commencement of its operation when the Education Bureau has 
approved the closure of its Set-up Fund (New Grant) Account 
 
 
(b) 
A school can retain surplus up to five times the provision of the 
prevailing level of the Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant.  
Details of the Grant are set out at Appendix 15. 
 
 
(IV) 
Rent and Rates Grants 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve reimbursement of rent and rates 
 
43. 
The Permanent Secretary may approve reimbursement of rent, government rent 
and rates actually paid for special school purposes except for government rent 
and rates for the area of the school tuckshop. 
 
 
NON-RECURRENT AND CAPITAL GRANTS 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve non-recurrent and capital grants 
 
44. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary may approve grants in respect of items such as 
major repairs and furniture and equipment requirements not covered by 
the Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant.  The grant shall be based 
on the approved tendered cost or actual cost, whichever is the less.  The 
Permanent Secretary may, however, determine a ratio of contribution by 
the Government and the school as may appear to him appropriate in 
respect of any such grant. 
 
 

=== Page 20 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
20 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve initial grant for school-based psychological 
service 
 
 
(b) 
The Permanent Secretary may approve for the purpose of providing 
school-based psychological service, an initial one-off grant per 
psychologist for the purchase of furniture and equipment, psychological 
tests and materials related to remedial/ training programmes required to 
set up the operation of the service, the rate of which is as announced in 
the relevant circular.  A separate ledger would be necessary to record the 
details of expenses charged to this grant.  This grant should be 
completely utilised by the end of the financial year after the one in which 
the grant is made.  Any surplus will then be clawed back. 
  
Permanent Secretary may approve initial grant for resource teaching service for 
children comorbid with autism spectrum disorder 
 
 
(c) 
The Permanent Secretary may approve for the purpose of providing 
resource teaching service for children comorbid with autism spectrum 
disorder in schools for children with intellectual developmental disorder 
(IDD), schools for children with VI, a school for children with HI, 
schools for children with physical disability (PD) and schools for social 
development, an initial one-off grant per resource teacher for the 
purchase of additional furniture, equipment and resource materials 
required for implementing the programme, the rate of which is as 
announced in the relevant circular.  A separate ledger would be 
necessary to record the details of expenses charged to this grant.  The 
grant should be completely utilised by the end of the financial year after 
the one in which the grant is made.  Any surplus will then be clawed 
back.  
 
 
 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
Permanent Secretary may approve capital grant for new/reprovisioned special 
schools 
 
45. 
The Permanent Secretary may approve capital grant for buildings, furniture and 
equipment in respect of a new school, or of extension to or reprovisioning of an 
existing school, administered under the terms of this Code of Aid. 
 
46. 
Procedures in respect of Sections 44(a) and 45 of this Code of Aid are shown at 
Appendices 16, 17 and 18. 
  
Insurance 
 
Insurance 
 
47. 
(a) 
The Government shall carry the risk of damage or loss to the school 
premises of an aided school including furniture and equipment caused 
by fire, natural disasters such as typhoons, earthquakes, flooding, etc. 
and other perils such as an aircraft crash, explosion, impact by any road 
vehicle, sprinkler leakage or bursting or overflowing of water tanks, 
apparatus and pipes, riots or malicious acts of any person, and damage 
caused by construction or excavation work by a third party adjacent to 

=== Page 21 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
21 
 
the school or in its vicinity; loss of standard items by theft and burglary; 
and loss of cash (government funds only) in transit.  Details concerning 
the procedures for assessment and settlement of claims for damage, 
destruction or loss of standard items in the cases mentioned above and 
related security measures are set out at Appendix 19.  However, schools 
should themselves decide whether to take out insurance for non-school 
portions and buildings and above-standard or non-standard items of 
furniture and equipment purchased out of their own funds, and the 
premiums shall be met from schools’ own funds.  For above-standard or 
non-standard items of furniture and equipment for school portions 
acquired out of the Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant, the 
premiums for the insurance can be charged to the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Government shall take out insurance for public liabilities and 
employees’ compensation as required by the Employees’ Compensation 
Ordinance on behalf of all aided schools under a Block Insurance Policy.  
However, staff members whose salaries are not subvented by the 
Education Bureau are not covered by employees’ compensation insurance 
of the Block Insurance Policy.  Schools should arrange their own 
insurance to cover this type of staff, if any. 
 
(c) 
In addition to (b) above, the Block Insurance Policy includes a section on 
group personal accident insurance for students, which provides a nominal 
benefit to students who suffer from Accidental Death or Permanent 
Disablement whilst participating in any school activities. 
 
(d) 
Schools may, on behalf of parents, arrange a separate additional cover for 
group personal accidents of students with any insurance company, if 
necessary.  However, parents should be given full discretion in accepting 
the arrangement, if any.  In addition, the group personal accident insurance 
under the Block Insurance Policy should not be seen as a comprehensive 
personal insurance coverage for students.  If parents wish to have a 
comprehensive personal insurance coverage for their children, they may 
acquire it separately at their own costs from any insurance company. 
 
 
 

=== Page 22 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
22 
 
III. 
ADMINISTRATION OF AIDED SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Admission, Suspension and Expulsion of Pupils 
Permanent Secretary to regulate admission of pupils 
 
48. 
Admission and allocation of places to aided special schools shall be regulated 
as the Permanent Secretary may determine, and as shown at Appendix 1. 
 
Permanent Secretary to regulate suspension and expulsion of pupils 
 
49. 
Suspension and expulsion of pupils from an aided special school shall be 
regulated as the Permanent Secretary may determine, and as shown at 
Appendix 1. 
 
 
Teaching Practice Arrangements 
Schools to accept teaching practice arrangements 
 
50. 
Schools should co-operate, whenever possible, in the training of teachers by 
accepting for teaching practice student teachers undergoing training in the local 
universities.  Consultation with the institutions concerned should be arranged 
prior to the placement of student teachers.  
  
Use of School Premises 
Use of school premises 
 
51. 
(a) 
The premises of an aided special school shall be used only for the 
approved activities of such school, except as may be permitted in writing 
by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
(b) 
Classrooms and ancillary facilities should be made available at the 
request of the Permanent Secretary for the operation of evening courses 
run by non-profit-making school operators commissioned by the 
Education Bureau.  In making his requests, the Permanent Secretary will 
take into consideration any special difficulties and existing commitments, 
and will fully consult the school authorities concerned.  In this 
connection, schools concerned may charge appropriate remuneration in 
respect of hire charges and electricity charges. 
 
 
Appointment and Dismissal of Staff 
Permanent Secretary to be notified of appointment and dismissal of staff 
 
52. 
(a) 
Appointment and dismissal of staff shall be in accordance with 
regulations 76, 77 and 78 of the Education Regulations, in conformity 
with this Code of Aid and in accordance with such instructions as the 
Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue. 
 
 

=== Page 23 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
23 
 
 
(b) 
All appointments, resignations and dismissals shall be promptly notified 
to the Permanent Secretary.  Such notification shall be in writing, stating 
the effective dates and indicating, where applicable, the period of notice 
given.  Schools should issue to staff leaving the employment a document 
certifying the particulars of his/her employment including, wherever 
applicable, the monthly salary, salary point, incremental date and leave 
balance. 
 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of processing applications from teachers for withdrawal 
of provident fund, the School Management Committee shall also inform 
the Permanent Secretary when a teacher - 
 
(i) 
is compulsorily retired, or dismissed or the contract is terminated 
(on completion or otherwise); or 
(ii) 
retires voluntarily, resigns, or terminates the contract (on 
completion or otherwise), in order to avoid compulsory retirement, 
dismissal, or contract termination, on account of professional 
misconduct or being convicted of an offence. 
 
 
Appointment of staff 
 
53. 
(a) 
The School Management Committee may approve the appointment of 
staff paid out of the Salaries Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
this Code of Aid and any requirements the Permanent Secretary may 
determine, except for the following staff whose appointment shall be 
subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary - 
 
(i) 
School Heads; 
(ii) 
direct appointment of staff to promotion ranks; 
(iii) registered teachers by merit of ten years recognised teaching 
experience; 
(iv) unqualified teachers; 
(v) 
staff above the age of sixty; and 
(vi) temporary Native-speaking English Teachers. 
 
 
(b) 
The School Head shall check the eligibility of a person for appointment 
in accordance with the requirements of this Code of Aid and any 
instructions the Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue.  
Schools shall be responsible for assessing the salaries of staff.  The 
School Head shall verify the salary assessment and inform the 
Permanent Secretary of the salary particulars of staff paid out of the 
Salaries Grant in a prescribed form for grant purposes. 
  
Teachers and other staff to be medically examined 
 
54. 
(a) 
All teaching staff, specialist staff, artisans, cooks and workshop 
attendants (other than supply staff) shall, before appointment, undergo a 
medical examination including a chest X-ray examination by a 
registered medical practitioner.  
  

=== Page 24 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
24 
 
 
(b) 
All other staff (other than supply staff) shall, before appointment, 
undergo a medical examination by a registered medical practitioner. 
 
 
(c) 
Serving registered teachers on transfer from one aided school to another 
without break of service will not be required to attend an X-ray 
examination or present a medical certificate on appointment. 
 
 
(d) 
The School Management Committee may exempt the following 
employees from pre-employment X-ray examination - 
 
(i) 
Staff members who can show that they have undergone a chest X-
ray examination not more than twelve months before their dates of 
appointment.  The X-ray should not show signs of active 
tuberculosis. 
(ii) 
Staff members in possession of a certificate from a registered 
medical practitioner, confirming that they are pregnant. 
Exemption granted to staff in this category will continue until the 
end of their subsequent maternity leave, at which time they should 
be instructed to make their own arrangements for X-ray 
examination. 
 
(e) 
The purpose of the above examinations is not to discriminate against any 
employee or job applicant with a disability.  Employers are advised to 
note the relevant provisions of the Code of Practice on Employment 
issued by the Equal Opportunities Commission. 
 
 
Head to verify qualifications, experience and date of birth 
 
55. 
(a) 
The Head of an aided special school shall inquire into, examine and 
verify the certificates and testimonials of an applicant for appointment 
of any grade of staff in the school, and shall verify any previous 
experience claimed by such applicant, making reference for this purpose 
to the applicant’s former employer(s) as appropriate. 
 
 
(b) 
The Head of an aided special school shall verify the date of birth of any 
person employed to any grade of staff in the school, and shall require 
such person to produce for inspection a birth certificate, statutory 
declaration, the Hong Kong Identity Card, or such other documents as 
may appear necessary for this purpose. 
 
 
(c) 
Schools shall keep all copies of certificates and testimonials, 
appointment forms and any other relevant documents in respect of all 
staff employed for inspection as and when required. 
  
Qualifications for various grades of staff 
 
56. 
Qualifications required for eligibility for employment as staff in an aided 
special school are shown at Appendix 4. 
  
 
 

=== Page 25 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
25 
 
Preference to be given to persons possessing professional qualifications 
 
57. 
The School Management Committee shall, in considering the appointment of 
teaching staff, seek to give preference to persons who, in addition to the 
minimum qualification for employment, possess a professional qualification 
in special education. 
  
Temporary employment of unqualified persons as teachers 
 
58. 
(a) 
Subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary, the School 
Management Committee may, if a qualified person is not available to fill 
a vacant teaching post, temporarily employ an unqualified person as a 
teacher.  The salary for such an unqualified teacher shall be as shown at 
Appendix 3. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding (a), no person shall be employed to teach in a workshop 
unless qualified to teach technical subjects. 
 
 
Contract of service; letter of appointment 
 
59. 
(a) 
A teacher shall, on appointment to an aided special school, be furnished 
with a contract of service and, in addition, or alternatively, a letter of 
appointment.  Such contract of service or letter of appointment shall be 
signed by the Supervisor of the school and shall be countersigned by the 
teacher on appointment. 
 
 
(b) 
Such contract of service or letter of appointment shall not be subject to 
annual renewal.  Schools may make it clear in the contract that, subject 
to the agreement between the teacher concerned and the School 
Management Committee, the contract may be renewed at regular 
intervals. 
 
 
(c) 
Such contract of service or letter of appointment shall specify: 
 
(i) 
the name of the special school and of the employer, this being the 
School Management Committee or, if any school has only one 
manager, that manager; 
(ii) 
the date from which the appointment is to have effect; 
(iii) requirements, if any, relating to probation; 
(iv) the conditions of service and, if applicable, any specific language 
proficiency requirements; 
(v) 
the salary to be paid on commencement of the appointment, and 
any salary scale relating to the post, including the annual 
incremental date; 
(vi) whether such teacher is to contribute to a provident fund; and if so, 
what such contribution shall be; 
(vii) the entitlement of such teacher to paid sick leave, maternity leave 
or paternity leave; (updated on 1 September 2016) 

=== Page 26 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
26 
 
(viii) conditions of termination of appointment and the minimum period 
of notice of termination of the contract to be given by either party 
wishing to terminate such contract as specified under Section 61; 
(ix) the conditions relating to payment of salary on the resignation or 
dismissal of such teacher as specified under Section 61; 
(x) 
that such teacher shall act in accordance with the terms of the 
Education Ordinance and of subsidiary legislation made under that 
Ordinance, of this Code of Aid and of such instructions as the 
Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue regarding the 
conduct of aided special schools. 
  
Appointment to be initially on probation 
 
60. 
A teacher on first appointment to an aided special school shall serve a 
probationary period of two years, after which the employment of such teacher 
shall be permanent, subject to such provisions regarding termination of 
employment as may be contained in such teacher’s contract of service or letter 
of appointment. 
  
Termination of employment 
 
61. 
(a) 
The employment of a teacher who is serving a period of probation shall 
be terminable by the giving of one month’s notice either by the School 
Management Committee at which such teacher is employed, or by the 
teacher. 
 
(b) 
The employment of an unqualified teacher under the terms of Section 58 
of this Code of Aid shall be terminable by the giving of one month’s 
notice either by the School Management Committee or by the teacher, 
subject to such provisions regarding termination of employment as may 
be contained in such teacher’s contract of service or letter of appointment. 
 
(c) 
The employment of a teacher who has satisfactorily completed a 
probationary period, shall be terminable by the giving of three months’ 
notice in writing by the School Management Committee or by the teacher. 
 
(d) 
A teacher employed for a period of not less than two years as specified in 
a contract of service or letter of appointment shall, at least three months 
before the expiry of such specified period, inform the School 
Management Committee whether or not he wishes to seek a renewal of 
the contract of service.  The School Management Committee shall 
similarly, at least three months before the expiry of such specified period, 
inform the teacher whether or not it intends to propose renewal of the 
contract of service relating to his employment. 
 

=== Page 27 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
27 
 
   
 
(e) 
A teacher who terminates his employment without having given such 
notice of intention so to terminate as may be required by the terms of this 
Code of Aid or of the contract of service or letter of appointment relating 
to his employment, shall be liable to pay an amount equivalent to the 
amount of salary of the number of insufficient days of notice, capped at 
the level of one month’s salary, to be credited to the school’s Salaries 
Grant Account.  Nevertheless, the School Management Committee may 
waive the said payment if the teacher’s explanation is justified and inform 
the Permanent Secretary of such a waiver and the reasons thereof.  
(updated on 1 September 2025)  
 
(f) 
The School Management Committee may, subject to the provisions of the 
Employment Ordinance, suspend a teacher from his normal duties for a 
period of not exceeding 14 days under the following circumstances: 
(i) 
in cases where criminal proceedings of a serious nature have been, 
or are likely to be instituted; 
(ii) 
in cases where the teacher’s serious misconduct is under 
investigation and it would be against the interest of the school for 
him to continue to teach in the classroom. 
In case of (i), where the criminal proceedings are not concluded within 14 
days, the period of suspension on half pay may be extended till the end of 
such proceedings.  The School Management Committee may decide 
whether or not to suspend the teacher on half pay and such payment of 
salaries shall be subject to the approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(g) 
The School Management Committee shall only dismiss a teacher for good 
and sufficient reasons (see Appendices 7 and 8).  A teacher shall be liable 
to summary dismissal if it appears to the School Management Committee 
that he has been convicted of a criminal offence or has committed a grave 
breach of duty. 
  
Appointment of specialist staff and school executive officers 
 
62. 
The appointment of specialist staff and school executive officers to aided 
special schools should follow the principles outlined in Sections 59-61, where 
applicable. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
Retirement 
 
63. 
(a) 
All non-specialist staff employed from the Salaries Grant in accordance 
with the approved establishment and pay scales for these staff shall retire 
at the age of sixty, except in special cases and with the approval of the 
Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
All other staff, including the Head, teachers, laboratory technicians, 
specialist staff and school executive officers of an aided special school, 
shall retire at the end of the school year in which he reaches the age of 
sixty.  Under exceptional circumstances, the Permanent Secretary may on 
the recommendation of the School Management Committee and subject 

=== Page 28 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
28 
 
to the submission of a satisfactory medical certificate as to fitness, permit 
such staff to continue in service for a period of one school year after the 
end of that in which he reaches the age of sixty, and for further periods 
each of one school year, up to the end of the school year in which he 
reaches the age of sixty-five. 
  
Promotion and regrading 
 
64. 
(a) 
Except for promotion to the post of the School Head and direct entry to a 
promotion post which shall be subject to the approval of the Permanent 
Secretary, the School Management Committee may approve promotion 
of all staff members and regrading of non-graduate teachers to take up a 
post of the graduate grade in accordance with the provisions in this Code 
of Aid. 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee is required to put in place fair and 
open procedures in processing all cases of promotion and regrading in 
compliance with any such instructions as the Permanent Secretary may 
from time to time issue.  The Supervisor shall inform the Education 
Bureau in a prescribed form of all cases of promotion and regrading. 
 
65. 
The conditions under which teaching and other staff may become eligible for 
promotion to higher ranks of appointment are set out at Appendix 5.  A teacher 
in service who becomes eligible for appointment to a higher grade by reason of 
the acquisition of further qualifications will be considered for appointment to 
the higher grade.  However, a special school may not exceed the overall 
entitlement in respect of grades and ranks of appointment as shown at 
Appendix 2. 
 
 
Acting appointments 
 
66. 
(a) 
The School Management Committee may, in accordance with the rules 
set out at Appendix 5, approve the appointment of full-time graduate 
teachers to fill vacant promotion-grade posts in the rank of Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress on an acting basis.  Allowance for such acting 
appointment will be treated as salary for provident fund purposes. 
 
(b) 
The School Management Committee may also approve full-time regular 
teachers for acting appointments to approved functional posts when such 
posts are left vacant arising from approved leave or wastage.  Acting 
allowance will only be granted if a teacher has taken up an acting 
appointment for 30 consecutive calendar days or more.  The approved 
functional posts in aided secondary special schools or the secondary 
section of combined level special schools cover posts in the rank of 
Principal I, Principal II, Principal Graduate Master/Mistress, and Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress; while those in aided primary special schools 
or the primary section of combined level special schools cover 
Headmaster/ Headmistress I, Headmaster/Headmistress II, Senior 
Primary School Master/Mistress, and Primary School Master/Mistress.  
Arrangements for acting appointments and allowances are set out at 
Appendix 3.  Such acting allowances will be treated as salary for 
provident fund purposes.  (updated on 1 September 2019) 

=== Page 29 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
29 
 
Outside duties 
 
67. 
Staff employed full-time in a special school administered under the terms of this 
Code of Aid shall not engage in outside duties except with the prior approval of 
the Supervisor, who must be satisfied that such duties contribute to the public 
good and are not such as to interfere with the efficient performance of the staff’s 
normal duties.  Records of such approval should be kept by the school. 
 
 
Provident Fund 
 
68. 
(a) 
A teacher in an aided special school who contributes to the Subsidised 
Schools Provident Fund is subject to the provisions of the Subsidised 
Schools Provident Fund Rules made under the Education Ordinance.  The 
benefits which a teacher-contributor may receive from the Fund are 
briefly reproduced from the Rules at Appendix 13. 
 
(b) 
A teacher who does not contribute to the Subsidised Schools Provident 
Fund and who contributes to another provident or superannuation fund 
approved by the Permanent Secretary may on submission of original 
receipts in respect of his contribution to such fund, receive from the 
Government a donation in respect of 50% of his contribution to such fund 
or 5% of his basic salary in Hong Kong, whichever is the less. 
 
(c) 
Temporary teachers appointed for 60 days or more and new teachers over 
the age of 55 on first appointment are required to join the Mandatory 
Provident Fund scheme. 
 
69. 
Unless specifically exempted under the Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme 
Ordinance or employed for less than 60 days, all laboratory technicians and non-
teaching staff are required to contribute to a registered Mandatory Provident 
Fund scheme or a scheme registered under the Occupational Retirement Scheme 
Ordinance. 
  
School Accounts 
Supervisors to keep accounts 
 
70. 
(a) 
The Supervisor of an aided special school shall be responsible for keeping 
proper books of accounts, which shall comprise: 
 
(i) 
cash book for government grants and cash book for school funds; 
(ii) 
petty cash book for government funds and school funds; 
(iii) attendance register and register of fees/subscriptions/other charges 
showing inter alia receipt number and amount of tuition fees, 
boarding fees, subscriptions and other charges, if any, against the 
name of each pupil; 
(iv) revenue receipt counterfoil and Daily Collection Summary in 
respect of tuition fees, boarding fees, subscriptions, other charges 
and any other income; 
(v) 
payment vouchers in respect of all expenditure; 

=== Page 30 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
30 
 
(vi) a register of capital assets; 
(vii) a register of non-recurrent grants - building; and a register of non-
recurrent grants - furniture and equipment; 
(viii) a general ledger and subsidiary ledgers showing accounts in respect 
of all items of recurrent income and expenditure; 
(ix) provident fund records for individual staff; 
(x) 
register of hire of school accommodation; 
(xi) register of donations; and 
(xii) stock and sales records for exercise books, stationery, etc., if 
necessary. 
 
 
(b) 
All books of accounts, receipts, counterfoils and vouchers shall at all 
reasonable times be available for inspection by the Permanent Secretary 
or officers authorised by him in that behalf.  Records of a permanent 
nature, e.g. annual accounts, inventories, records of capital expenditure 
and Government non-recurrent subsidies, records in connection with 
special school building funds/donations, etc., shall not be destroyed 
without prior approval of the Permanent Secretary.  However, the 
following records may be destroyed after a certain period of retention, as 
specified below: 
 
(i) 
Minimum period of retention - 7 years: 
Books of accounts, i.e. cash books, Ledgers, etc. 
All types of vouchers, bank statements 
(ii) 
Minimum period of retention - 2 years: 
Quarterly returns (duplicates),  
Paysheets (duplicates), 
Fees receipts/school attendance registers,  
Register of hire of school accommodation. 
 
(c) 
Separate books of accounts should be kept for the phasing-outing and the 
phasing-in schools under the reprovisioning programme. 
 
 
Accounts not to include provision for depreciation 
 
71. 
An aided special school shall not make any provision in its accounts for 
depreciation.  Expenditure in respect of a capital asset shall be debited to the 
relevant capital asset account and shall not be debited to an income and 
expenditure account. 
  
Supervisor to be responsible for bank account 
 
72. 
(a) 
The Supervisor of an aided special school shall keep bank accounts in the 
name of the school, one of which accounts shall be kept solely in respect 
of moneys received from the Government. 
 

=== Page 31 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
31 
 
(b) 
All disbursements shall, as far as possible, be made by cheque, which 
shall be signed by the Supervisor and, where there are two or more 
registered managers, by one other registered manager in addition to the 
Supervisor. 
 
(c) 
The Supervisor may keep a reasonable cash balance as specified by the 
Permanent Secretary from time to time to meet small payments.  
Alternatively, a further account could be opened for this purpose with 
cheques signed by the Head and the Deputy Head of the school, duly 
authorised by the School Management Committee. 
  
School funds to be kept separate 
 
73. 
Tuition fees or subscriptions or other sums received by an aided special school 
from the Government or other sources shall not, in any circumstances, be paid 
into a bank account kept in the name of the Supervisor or other person or 
persons, whether or not such person or persons are members of the School 
Management Committee or teaching staff, but shall be paid into the bank 
account maintained in the name of the school. 
  
Submission of accounts 
 
74. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary may require the Supervisor of an aided special 
school to submit accounts at such times and in such manner as he may 
determine. 
 
(b) 
The accounts of an aided special school shall, unless the Permanent 
Secretary in writing otherwise permits, be audited by certified public 
accountants/public accountants registered under the Professional 
Accountants Ordinance; and the audit fee shall be charged against the 
school’s School and Class Grant Account/Boarding Grant Account as 
appropriate. 
 
(c) 
The accounting year covered by the audited accounts shall be from the 
first day of September of one year to the thirty-first day of August of the 
next.  Schools which are unable to prepare their annual accounts on this 
basis may apply in writing to the Permanent Secretary for following the 
traditional financial year basis. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Code of Aid, the financial year shall be from the 
first day of April of one year to the thirty-first day of March of the next. 
  
Permanent Secretary may withhold grant if accounts not submitted 
 
75. 
The Permanent Secretary may, if a special school fails to submit annual 
accounts or delays the submission of such accounts without reasonable cause, 
temporarily withhold payment of such proportion of grant made monthly to the 
school as he shall determine. 
 
 
 

=== Page 32 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
32 
 
 
Subscriptions used for development to be separately accounted for 
 
76. 
(a) 
If the Permanent Secretary has permitted an aided special school, under 
the terms of paragraph (c) of Section 15 of this Code of Aid, to transfer 
Subscriptions to a fund separately kept by the sponsoring body for 
educational development or other purpose, an audited annual statement of 
accounts in respect of such fund shall be prepared.  The accounting year, 
to which such accounts shall refer, shall be from the first day of September 
of one year to the thirty-first day of August of the next, except for 
financial year basis as approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
The Supervisor of such special school, when submitting annual accounts 
of the school as required by the terms of Section 74 of this Code of Aid, 
shall attach thereto the audited accounts in respect of such fund; and these 
accounts shall refer to the same period of time as those of the school, to 
which they are attached. 
 
 
Accounts relating to sections of special schools not subvented under this Code of 
Aid 
 
77. 
(a) 
Where the School Management Committee operates a private section or 
a boarding section which does not receive financial assistance under this 
Code of Aid, the accounts of such private section or boarding section shall 
be kept separately from those of the aided section and audited; and shall 
specify any subvention received from departments of the Government 
other than the Education Bureau.  The accounting year, to which such 
accounts shall refer, shall be from the first day of September of one year 
to the thirty-first day of August of the next, except for financial year basis 
as approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) The Supervisor of an aided special school shall, when submitting accounts, 
also submit accounts relating to any private section or boarding section of 
such school; and these accounts shall refer to the same period of time as 
those of the aided special school. 
  
Recurrent Grants to be refunded and accounts submitted, if special school ceases 
to be aided 
 
78. 
The School Management Committee shall, in the event of that school’s ceasing 
to be an aided school under the terms of this Code of Aid, forthwith repay to the 
Government any unexpended portion of recurrent grants made to the school, 
and submit a full set of duly audited accounts for the period up to and including 
the last day of operation of that school as an aided special school. 
  
Outgoing Supervisor to hand over accounts 
 
79. 
(a) 
If at any time for any cause the Supervisor of an aided special school 
ceases to act as such, he shall hand over all accounts and records relating 
to the school, together with any cash belonging to the school which may 
be in his charge, to such other person as the Permanent Secretary may 
approve as Supervisor, or pending the Permanent Secretary’s approval of 

=== Page 33 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
33 
 
such other person as Supervisor, to the School Management Committee. 
 
 
(b) 
The Supervisor of an aided special school, on ceasing to act as such, shall 
prepare a certificate listing all accounts and records relating to the school, 
and any cash belonging to the school which may have been in his charge.  
This certificate shall be signed by the outgoing Supervisor and by either 
such other person as the Permanent Secretary may approve as Supervisor, 
or pending the Permanent Secretary’s approval of such other person as 
Supervisor, by a majority of the members of the School Management 
Committee.  A copy of this certificate together with a certificate prepared 
by the bank at which the school’s accounts are kept, and showing the state 
of such accounts on the date at which the outgoing Supervisor ceased to 
act as Supervisor, shall be submitted by the School Management 
Committee to the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 
(c) 
The Permanent Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to submit, in such form and within such period of time as he 
shall prescribe, full accounts in respect of the period up to and including 
the day on which the outgoing Supervisor ceased to act as Supervisor. 
 
(d) 
In the event of the Permanent Secretary having required such accounts to 
be submitted, and the School Management Committee having failed to 
submit them, the Permanent Secretary may require the outgoing 
Supervisor and the members of the School Management Committee, or 
such of them as he shall determine, severally or jointly to refund to the 
Government such proportion of grants made to the special school during 
the period in which the outgoing Supervisor acted as Supervisor as he shall 
assess. 

=== Page 34 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
34 
 
 
 
Appendices to the Code of Aid for Special Schools 
 
Appendix 1 
Administrative Guide 
 
Appendix 2 
Staff Establishment 
Attachment A 
Ranking of Heads of Special Schools 
Attachment B 
Teaching Staff Establishment for Primary Section of 
Special Schools 
Attachment C 
Teaching Staff Establishment for Secondary Section of 
Special Schools 
 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
Appendix 3 
Salary Scales and Allowances 
 
Appendix 4 
Qualifications Required for Grades of Appointment in Aided Special Schools 
Attachment A 
Principal I 
Attachment B 
Principal II 
Attachment C 
Principal Graduate Master / Mistress 
Attachment D 
Senior Graduate Master / Mistress 
Attachment E 
Graduate Master / Mistress  
Attachment F 
(i) 
Principal Assistant Master / Mistress 
 
(ii) 
Headmaster / Headmistress I  
Attachment G 
(i) 
Senior Assistant Master / Mistress 
 
(ii) 
Headmaster / Headmistress II  
Attachment H 
(i) 
Assistant Master / Mistress 
(ii) 
Primary School Master/ Mistress 
(iii) Senior Primary School Master/ Mistress  
Attachment I 
(i) 
Certificated Master / Mistress 
 
(ii) 
Assistant Primary School Master/ Mistress  
Attachment J 
(i) 
Educational Psychologist I 
 
(ii) 
Educational Psychologist II 
Attachment K 
 
Speech Therapist 
Attachment L 
 
School Executive Officer 
Attachment M 
 
Physiotherapist I 
Attachment N 
 
Occupational Therapist I 
Attachment O 
 
Nursing Officer 
 
Appendix 5 
Conditions for Promotion and Acting Appointment 
 
Appendix 6 
Terms of Employment for Laboratory Technicians 
 
Appendix 7 
Teaching Staff’s Contracts 

=== Page 35 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
35 
 
 
 
Appendix 8 
Procedure to be followed in Case of Dismissal or Termination of Appointment 
of a Teacher 
 
Appendix 9 
Payment of Salaries on Appointment, Resignation, Retirement or Termination 
of Appointment 
 
Appendix 10 Grant of Sick Leave and Special Tuberculosis Leave and Paternity Leave 
 
Appendix 11 Grant of Maternity Leave 
 
Appendix 12 Annual Leave 
 
Appendix 13 Subsidised Schools Provident Fund 
 
Appendix 14 Operating Expenses Block Grant 
 
Appendix 15 Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Appendix 16 Non-Recurrent Grants (Furniture/Equipment) 
 
Appendix 17 Non-Recurrent Grants (Major Repairs) 
 
Appendix 18 Notes on Building Grants 
 
Appendix 19 School Assets and Settlement of Claims 

=== Page 36 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
36 
 
Appendix 1 
 
 
Administrative Guide 
  
First Aid 
 
1. 
In every special school, except hospital schools, there shall be a first-aid 
box, the contents of which shall be periodically checked and replaced when necessary.  
The first-aid box should contain treatment materials including antiseptics, disposable 
plastic/vinyl gloves, forceps, sterilised dressings and bandages.  In schools where 
there are science laboratories and workshops, first-aid boxes should also contain 
materials for giving immediate treatment to burns, scalds, acid/alkali burns, shock and 
other injuries.  Pupils should not be allowed to perform dangerous practical 
experiments and all reasonable precautions should be taken to guard against accidents.  
Dangerous poisons should be kept in a locked cupboard. 
 
2. 
At least two members of the staff of every special school should be trained 
in giving first-aid treatment. 
  
Fire Precautions 
 
3. 
All special schools except hospital schools, as required by the Director of 
Fire Services, shall be equipped with fire extinguishers kept in easily accessible 
places and janitor staff shall be trained in the use of the extinguishers.  The School 
Head shall ensure that all fire service installation or equipment in the school premises 
is kept in good condition at all times.  Laboratories shall in addition be supplied with 
buckets of sand and water.  If there is no laboratory in the school, experiments 
involving the use of candles and spirit lamps should only be demonstrated by teachers 
in classrooms provided with fire extinguishers, fire blankets and first-aid boxes.  The 
candles or spirit lamps so used should be placed in a metal tray away from any 
combustibles. 
 
4. 
Fire drills, when all pupils and staff must leave the school building and the 
roll be called, shall be held at least once every six months, or otherwise as advised by 
the Director of Fire Services and shall be noted in the school log book or in the 
appropriate school record book. 
 
5. 
The responsibility for sounding a fire alarm in a school should not be 
delegated to one individual.  It should be the duty of any person discovering or 
suspecting an outbreak of fire to give the alarm. 
 
6. 
Where a special school has more than one fire alarm bell or light, 
arrangements should be made to ensure that when an alarm is given on one, it is 
immediately relayed to all other alarm bells or lights. 
 
7. 
Fire drills shall also be held for the boarding section. 
 
8. 
No cooking or naked light is allowed on the school premises, except in 
specifically designed and constructed kitchens approved by the Director of Fire 
Services. 
 

=== Page 37 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
37 
 
Correspondence with the Education Bureau 
 
9. 
All correspondence should be addressed to the Permanent Secretary but 
may be sub-directed to the particular officer primarily concerned. 
 
10. 
Members of the staff of an aided special school should normally correspond 
with the Education Bureau through the Head/Supervisor of the school. 
  
Admission and Progression of Pupils 
 
11. 
(a) 
The Permanent Secretary may require an aided special school to admit a 
child to fill an available vacant place. 
 
(b) 
Heads of special schools should ensure that children referred from other 
sources are genuinely in need of the type of special education provided by 
the school before admitting them.  In doubtful cases, the Education Bureau 
should be consulted. 
 
(c) 
All special schools shall maintain a system of records giving details of 
each pupil in a form recognised by the Permanent Secretary.  Such records 
shall give particulars of pupils entering and leaving the school. 
 
(d) 
Schools for children with hearing impairment, physical disability, 
intellectual developmental disorder, and visual impairment are provided 
with a pre-set quota to allow students to extend their years of study in 
these schools.  In arranging students with such a need and valid reasons 
to extend their years of study, these schools are required to put in place a 
proper mechanism and exercise school-based professional judgment based 
on the objective criteria jointly set between the Education Bureau and the 
special school sector. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
Suspension and Expulsion of Pupils 
 
12. 
(a) 
Pupils admitted into a course in an aided special school should normally 
be allowed to complete that school course.  No pupil shall be dismissed 
under the age of 15 without proper warning and notice to parents and 
without the prior approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
  
(b) 
Pupils must not be expelled solely on the ground that they are academically 
weak. 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
13. 
(a) 
No pupil shall be considered for expulsion except on the following grounds- 
(i) 
Deliberate non-payment of gazetted fees; 
(ii) 
A criminal or grave moral offence or serious breach of school 
discipline after reasonable measures to enlist the cooperation of 
parents have proved unsuccessful; 
(iii)  Medical or other grounds accepted by the Permanent Secretary as 
sufficiently serious. 
  

=== Page 38 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
38 
 
(b) 
Where approved subscriptions and boarding fees are charged, the 
deliberate non-payment of such fees is an accepted ground for expulsion.  
Supervisors and Heads of schools will be expected to investigate the 
circumstances and, if they are convinced that non-payment is genuinely 
deliberate, to inform the Permanent Secretary accordingly before expelling 
the pupil.  This applies to all pupils, whether they are subject to universal 
basic education or not. 
 
(c) 
Exceptionally, if it is considered that there are other grounds of sufficient 
gravity to merit expulsion, the Permanent Secretary shall be consulted at 
an early stage before any formal action is taken. 
 
(d) 
If a Head is contemplating the expulsion of a pupil, every effort must be 
made to interview the parents.  A warning letter shall be sent to the 
parents or guardians, and a full report should be submitted to the 
Permanent Secretary for his consideration at the same time. 
 
14. 
(a) 
Suspension from school is not an appropriate way to treat a misbehaved 
pupil.  Under most circumstances, the pupil in question should be 
allowed to continue normal schooling, pending the outcome of any 
investigation into the cause of his misbehaviour by the school and, if 
necessary, he should be referred for professional advice. 
 
(b) 
The suspension of a pupil for a short period of time may be ordered on 
grounds of unsatisfactory conduct after a suitable warning letter has been 
given to the parents or guardians.  In exceptionally serious cases, 
suspension may be effected immediately, provided that the parents or 
guardians are so advised.  The Permanent Secretary shall be informed of 
all cases of suspension from school for more than three school days. 
 
(c) 
All special schools shall keep a record of all suspensions and expulsions 
showing the reason in each and including, in expulsion cases, a record of 
the prior approval of the Permanent Secretary. 
  
Attendance, Terms and Holidays 
 
15. 
An attendance register shall be kept for each class and shall be made up 
within one hour of the commencement of each school session, except for hospital 
schools which shall complete the attendance procedure before the end of the school 
day. 
 
16. 
The Head of an aided special school shall keep a daily summary showing 
the attendance of each class. 
 
17. 
Special schools shall normally operate whole-day sessions. 
 
18. 
The school hours shall be as approved by the Permanent Secretary.  If 
the time devoted to religious knowledge and other religious observances exceeds 1.5 
hours per week, such excess time shall be additional to the normal school hours. 
 
19. 
No pupil shall be compelled to attend religious instruction or to participate 
in any religious observances and separate provision shall be made for all pupils not 
wishing to attend such activities.  All pupils shall be informed of this requirement at 
the commencement of each school year. 
 

=== Page 39 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
39 
 
 
20. 
The number of school holidays, which should include public holidays, 
shall be 90 days a year, with three additional discretionary holidays.  The school 
holidays should primarily be holidays for the children.  Teachers may also enjoy 
these holidays but they may be required to carry out extra-curricular duties or assist 
in performing school administrative duties during these holidays at the school’s 
discretion.  (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
21. 
The Supervisor shall, in accordance with regulation 79 of the Education 
Regulations, send to the Permanent Secretary before 15 August in each year notice of 
all holidays intended to give in the coming school year, including any special holidays 
given in honour of any particular event, and of all dates on which the usual work of 
the school will be suspended. 
 
22. 
The Permanent Secretary may, in accordance with regulation 82 of the 
Education Regulations, by notice in writing to the Supervisor of any special school 
require that a holiday shall be given on any day specified in such notice and the 
Supervisor shall ensure that such holiday is given accordingly. 
 
23. 
Schools may set aside not more than three days per school year for teachers 
to take part in school-based staff development and school planning work, during 
which pupils do not need to attend school. 
  
Curriculum and Time-table 
 
24. 
The Head of an aided special school shall forward to the Permanent 
Secretary a notification of any changes in the course of study for the coming school 
year, not later than the first of September each year.  The Permanent Secretary may 
withhold his approval of the whole course or any portion thereof, and the Head shall 
thereupon modify it accordingly.  (updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
25. 
All pupils in Secondary VI pursuing the ordinary curriculum should 
normally be presented for the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education 
Examination but Heads of special schools may exercise their discretion in exceptional 
cases with prior approval from the Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
26. 
In every aided special school, there shall be a time-table showing: 
(a) 
the time at which each daily session begins and ends; and 
(b) 
the time of the instruction given for each subject of the curriculum. 
Copies of the class and teachers’ time-tables and time allocation table shall be 
forwarded to the Permanent Secretary on the date specified in relevant circulars issued 
each year. 
 
27. 
In selecting textbooks for use by pupils, schools should observe the 
guidelines on the selection of textbooks and learning materials contained in the relevant 
circular issued by the Education Bureau.  Textbooks should not be changed 
unnecessarily as this may impose an undue financial burden upon parents.  Changes 
should be made only if textbooks currently in use are found to be unsuitable.  Where 
changes are deemed necessary, there ought to be good educational reasons for such 
changes.  Where a series of graded books is to be replaced, the new series should be 
introduced gradually, beginning at the lowest level and not at all levels throughout the 
school at any one time except in the event of the implementation of a new syllabus.  

=== Page 40 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
40 
 
 
Any proposal to replace a book on the Recommended List by a book which is not 
selected from the Recommended List must be supported by good educational reasons.  
The school should be prepared to supply such reasons if required to do so. 
 
28. 
Each school should have a homework policy for which the Head of the 
school carries responsibility in order to exercise proper control over the homework 
being set.  Such a policy should be worked out in consultation with teaching staff 
and, wherever possible, explained carefully to parents.  The guiding principle in 
setting homework is that it should be planned and chosen to complement and reinforce 
the work being done in the classroom and that due recognition should be given at 
all times to the age and abilities of pupils. 
 
 
Closing of Special Schools or Suspension of Classes in Event of Storms and 
Heavy Persistent Rain 
 
29. 
(a) 
Schools 
for 
children 
with 
physical 
disability 
and 
intellectual 
developmental disorder should be closed in the event of the hoisting of 
any typhoon signal No. 3 or higher.  Other special schools should be closed 
in the event of typhoon or storm signal higher than No. 3 being hoisted. 
However, for special schools with boarding sections and hospital schools, 
Supervisors of schools may permit certain classes to continue their 
sessions.  Notwithstanding the above, special schools shall be closed in 
other circumstances as instructed by the Permanent Secretary. 
(b) 
In the event of tropical cyclones, heavy persistent rain and thunderstorms, 
Heads of special schools should make necessary arrangements in 
accordance with relevant Education Bureau Circular in force. 
(c) 
In exceptional circumstances, the Permanent Secretary may announce the 
closing of schools or the suspension of classes in one or more districts. 
Pupils living in such districts need not go to school even if their schools 
are located elsewhere. 
(d) 
If local weather, road, slope or transport conditions warrant the closing of 
a particular school, and announcement has not been made by the 
Permanent Secretary to close schools generally, the Head of the school 
may close the school and notify the respective Senior School 
Development Officers as soon as possible afterwards. 
(e) 
Heads of schools are advised to draw up a contingency plan to deal with 
the closing of schools or suspension of classes due to deteriorating weather 
and parents should be informed of the arrangements through a circular 
letter, which should also remind parents of the use of their discretion in 
deciding whether or not to send their children back to school in the event of 
heavy persistent rain or deteriorating weather, having regard in particular 
to local weather, road, slope or transport conditions.  
(f) 
School heads are advised to take appropriate means to ensure the safety of 
their pupils in school. 
 
 

=== Page 41 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
41 
 
Inventories and Stock-books 
 
30. 
Schools need to keep registers for fixed assets and books.  School Heads 
shall keep Inventories of all permanent furniture and equipment giving date of 
acquisition and date and reason of any writing off.  Separate Inventories shall be 
kept for furniture, Gymnastic Equipment, etc. 
 
Communication between School Management Committee and Teaching Staff 
 
31. 
The Supervisor of an aided special school shall be responsible for making 
arrangements satisfactory to the Permanent Secretary for consultation between the 
School Management Committee and the teaching staff. 
 
 
Sale of School Textbooks, Exercise Books, School Uniforms and Miscellaneous 
Items including “Tuck Shop” Items 
 
32. 
No trading operation of any kind is allowed in the school except with the 
prior approval in writing by the Permanent Secretary.  Any profits so derived should 
be reflected in the school’s account. 
 
33. 
The Head of an aided special school shall be responsible for ensuring that 
the provisions in the guidelines on conducting trading operations which the 
Permanent Secretary may from time to time issue are fully complied with. 
 
34. 
Comprehensive price lists of all commodities for sale to pupils must be 
displayed prominently in the school. 

=== Page 42 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
42 
 
Appendix 2 
 
For the abbreviation in this Appendix, please refer to “List of Abbreviation” at the end. 
 
Staff Establishment 
 
A. 
SCHOOL SECTION 
 
1. 
Teaching Staff Establishment 
(a) 
Staffing Ratios1 
Basic Provision for secondary classes 
(i) The staffing ratio for junior secondary classes is 1.8 teachers per 
class; the staffing ratio for senior secondary classes is 2.0 teachers 
per class, and the staffing ratio for senior secondary classes of 
special schools offering the ordinary curriculum is 2.1 teachers 
per class.  The above teacher-to-class (T/C) ratios include 
additional teaching posts led by the increase in T/C ratio by 0.1 
teacher per class starting from the 2017/18 school year.  With 
effect from the 2020/21 school year, the post(s) is/are included in 
calculating promotion posts. 
(updated on 1 September 2023)  
 
Basic Provision for primary classes 
(ii) The staffing ratio for primary classes is 1.8 teachers per class, 
including additional teaching posts led by the increase in T/C ratio 
by 0.1 teacher per class starting from the 2017/18 school year. 
Starting from the 2022/23 school year, the additional teaching 
post(s) generated from the 0.1 increase in T/C ratio as from the 
2017/18 school year is/are included in the calculation of 
promotion posts. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
(iii) The number of teachers will be calculated separately for the 
primary and secondary sections.  Any decimal teacher entitlement 
arising from the calculation of the foregoing staffing ratios will 
be provided as Graduate Master/Mistress (GM) and Assistant 
Primary School Master/Mistress (APSM) in the secondary and 
primary sections respectively.  Schools may keep the fractional 
teacher posts, which will not be counted towards the calculation 
of promotion posts, in the teaching staff establishment.  
Alternatively, schools may opt for encashing the fractional 
teacher posts calculated at the mid-point salary of GM and APSM 
respectively.  
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
 
1  The teacher-to-class ratios have embedded the Additional Teachers for All Special Schools that include 
Resource Teacher for Supportive Educational Programmes, Teacher Librarian and teacher for split-
class teaching.  (updated on 1 September 2022) 
 

=== Page 43 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
43 
 
(b) 
Head of School 
 
In schools with more than 3 classes, the calculation is 
exclusive of the post of the Head of the school.  For grading of the 
Head of School, please refer to Attachment A. 
 
(c) 
Vice-principals / Deputy Heads of School 
 
In a special school with both primary and secondary 
sections and with 11 equivalent ordinary secondary classes or less, 
1 Primary School Master/Mistress (PSM) post will be re-ranked to the 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress (SPSM) rank for the deputy 
head at its primary section.  In a special school with both primary and 
secondary sections and with 12 - 23 equivalent ordinary secondary 
classes, 1 Senior Graduate Master/Mistress (SGM) post will be re-
ranked to the Principal Graduate Master/Mistress (PGM) rank for the 
vice-principal at its secondary section and 1 PSM post will be re-
ranked to the SPSM rank for the deputy head at its primary section.  
In a special school with both primary and secondary sections and with 
24 equivalent ordinary secondary classes or more, 1 SGM post will be 
re-ranked to the PGM rank for the vice-principal at its secondary 
section and 1 PSM post will be re-ranked to the SPSM rank for the 
deputy head at its primary section.  For the third deputy head, they are 
allowed to opt for the provision of vice-principal / deputy head either 
at the secondary section or the primary section. 
In a secondary special school with 12 - 23 equivalent 
ordinary secondary classes, 2 SGM posts will be re-ranked to the PGM 
rank for vice-principals; and in a secondary special school with 24 
equivalent ordinary secondary classes or more, 3 SGM posts will be 
re-ranked to the PGM rank for vice-principals. 
In a primary special school with 12 - 17 equivalent 
ordinary primary classes, 1 PSM post will be re-ranked to the SPSM 
rank for the deputy head; in a primary special school with 18 - 23 
equivalent ordinary primary classes, 2 PSM posts will be re-ranked to 
the SPSM rank for deputy heads; and in a primary special school with 
24 equivalent ordinary primary classes or more, 3 PSM posts will be 
re-ranked to the SPSM rank for deputy heads.  
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
(d) 
Part-time Teachers 
 
To determine the appropriate fraction for a part-time 
teacher, the following formula should be used: 
 
1.5 
x 
Number of periods taught by teacher per week 
Total number of periods taught per week 
 

=== Page 44 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
44 
 
(e) 
Teachers Assisting in Speech Therapy (TAST) 
 
A school for children with hearing impairment (HI) may 
appoint TASTs at the ratio of 1 for 3 classes of which one post must 
be offset by a speech therapist. 
 
The number of TASTs should be calculated for the school 
as a whole.  Where fractional staff results, this will be rounded up 
when it reaches 0.5, otherwise it will be rounded down.  The resulting 
number will then be apportioned between the primary and secondary 
sections of the special school in accordance with the number of 
classes in each section, in such a way that no fractional staff for either 
section will result.  TASTs will form part of the teaching 
establishment of the school. 
 
Remark:  All the TAST posts should be phased out by natural 
wastage and replaced by speech therapists.   
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(f) 
Mobility Instructors 
 
A school for children with visual impairment (VI) or 
school for children with visual impairment cum intellectual 
developmental disorder (VI cum IDD) may appoint 0.5 mobility 
instructor per class.  Mobility instructors will be calculated in 
accordance with the number of classes in each of the primary and 
secondary section and be included in the calculation of the teaching 
establishment for the relevant section.  Mobility Instructors will be 
reckoned as members of the teaching establishment of the school. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
(g) 
Resource Teachers (RTs) 
(i) 
Resource Teachers for Children with Visual Impairment 
Schools for children with VI offering the Resource Support 
Programme (RSP) may appoint RTs to teach students with VI 
who are registered under the RSP and attending ordinary 
schools or special schools other than those for children with 
VI, at the ratio of 0.5 RT to 3 students (braille users) and 0.5 
RT to 5 students (non-braille users).  
RTs for students of ordinary secondary schools and for 
students in the secondary section of special schools will be 
reckoned as members of the teaching establishment of the 
secondary section while those for students of ordinary primary 
schools and for students in the primary section of the special 
schools will be reckoned as members of the teaching 
establishment of the primary section. 
The number of RTs under the RSP included in the staff 
entitlement is capped.  Any additional RTs incurred on top of 
the capped entitlement would be provided in form of cash grant, 
i.e. the Staff Encashment Grant.  The Education Bureau may 

=== Page 45 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
45 
 
review the cap as and when required.  Schools should refer to 
relevant circular letter currently in force for the entitlement of 
the RTs and the amount of the Staff Encashment Grant incurred.  
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(ii) 
Resource Teachers for Children comorbid with Autism 
Spectrum Disorder (ASD) 
Schools for children with intellectual developmental disorder 
(IDD), schools for children with VI, a school for children with 
HI, schools for children with physical disability (PD) and 
schools for social development may appoint additional RT for 
children comorbid with ASD, at the following provision ratio: 
No. of children comorbid with ASD 
#No. of 
RTs provided 
Every 6 requiring remedial teaching 
programme 
0.5 
# The additional teaching post is approved on the understanding that 
the operation of remedial teaching programme for children 
comorbid with ASD is justified by the actual enrolment of students 
comorbid with ASD in the school.  The post will be clawed back 
when it is no longer justified.  
Starting from the 2024/25 school year, the total number of RT 
posts that a school entitles will be allocated equally, in units of 
0.5, to the primary section and the secondary section.  The 
remaining 0.5 RT post, if any, will be allocated to the section 
with more students comorbid with ASD.  In the case that both 
sections are having the same number of students comorbid with 
ASD, the remaining RT post will be allocated to the primary 
section.  The number of RT post(s) in the staff entitlement, along 
with other regular posts that can be used for calculation of 
promotion posts, will be counted towards the calculation of 
promotion post entitlement in the primary section and the 
secondary section. 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
(iii) Resource Teachers for Enhanced Support Service (ESS) for 
Students with Hearing Impairment 
A school for children with HI may appoint: 
(a) additional RT in its primary section to provide support to 
students with HI who are attending ordinary primary 
schools and in need of additional support, at the ratio of 1 
teacher for 1 unit.  The size of a unit is 1 - 25 students. 
(b) additional RT in its secondary section to provide support to 
students with HI who are attending ordinary secondary 
schools and in need of additional support, at the ratio of 1 
teacher for 1 unit.  The size of a unit is 1 - 20 students. 
(c) additional RT in its primary section and secondary section 
to provide support to students with HI who are attending 
aided special schools and in need of additional support, at 
the ratio of 1 teacher for 1 unit.  The size of a unit is 1 - 50 

=== Page 46 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
46 
 
students. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(d) 1 senior teacher at Senior Graduate Master/Mistress (SGM) 
rank to undertake the duties of planning, development and 
monitoring of ESS for ordinary and special schools, which 
mainly include - 
 
planning, developing and implementing the support 
services for ESS students;  
 
overseeing the professional advice, counselling and 
guidance, and training for teachers and parents in 
centre-based and/or school-based support services;  
 
enhancing the support of ESS students in need of sign 
language to assist communication and learning, and 
providing support for teaching staff in ordinary schools 
the ESS students enrolled; and 
 
planning 
and 
coordinating 
the 
professional 
development for RTs. 
The number of RTs under the ESS included in the staff 
entitlement is capped.  Any additional RTs incurred on top of 
the capped entitlement would be provided in form of cash grant, 
i.e. the Staff Encashment Grant.  The Education Bureau may 
review the cap as and when required.  School should refer to 
relevant circular letter currently in force for the entitlement of 
the RTs and the amount of the Staff Encashment Grant incurred. 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
(h) 
Low-vision Training Teacher 
A school for children with VI or school for children with 
VI cum IDD may, subject to the needs identified, appoint not more 
than 1 additional teacher in its primary section for delivering low-
vision training programme.  The school may be entitled to 0.5 or 1 
additional teacher should the workload of the low-vision training 
service be below or over 50% of the workload of a full-time teacher 
respectively.  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(i) 
Additional Senior Teacher Posts of English 
An additional Senior Teacher post, to be offset by a post 
in the rank of APSM, is provided to each primary special 
school/special school with primary section that operates 6 or more 
primary classes and adopts the ordinary school curriculum to provide 
curriculum leadership in the teaching of English to improve co-
ordination, planning and methodology.  The conditions for 
appointment to the additional post are at Appendix 5.   
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(j) 
Primary School Curriculum Leader 
With effect from the 2020/21 school year, each special 
school with a primary section, regardless of the number of approved 
classes, is entitled to the provision of a Primary School Curriculum 

=== Page 47 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
47 
 
Leader post at the PSM rank.  (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
(k) 
Additional Posts from the Senior Secondary Curriculum Support 
Grant (SSCSG) and/or the Career and Life Planning Grant (CLPG) 
 
With effect from the 2016/17 school year, schools are allowed to turn 
the SSCSG and/or CLPG into regular teaching posts to provide more 
stable teacher manpower for schools to enhance the implementation 
of senior secondary curriculum and strengthen the development of life 
planning education and related guidance services.  Upon conversion 
of SSCSG, each school would be provided with 0.1 GM per senior 
secondary class.  As for conversion of CLPG into post, each school 
operating senior secondary class(es) would be provided with 1 GM.  
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, the regular teaching posts 
converted from the 2 grants will be counted towards the calculation of 
promotion post entitlement.  The 2 grants are to be converted into 
regular teaching posts across the board before the 2022/23 school year.  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(l) 
Expansion of Graduate Posts in Special Schools 
 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, all teaching posts 
on the approved establishment of aided schools are graduate teacher 
posts with the full implementation of the all graduate teaching force 
policy.  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(m) Graded Posts within the Establishment 
 
The number of posts in each rank shall be determined by 
making reference to the following attachments: 
 
Attachment B 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment for Primary 
Section of Special Schools 
Attachment C 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment for Secondary 
Section of Special Schools 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
 
 

=== Page 48 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
48 
 
2. 
Laboratory Technicians (LTs) 
 
(a) 
LT II/III for science laboratories may be appointed on the following 
scale: 
Number of Laboratories 
Number of LTs 
1 
1 
2 
2 
3 
3 
(b) 
In schools for children with HI with up to 17 classes, an additional 
LT II/III may be appointed for the maintenance of audiological 
equipment and hearing aids.  A second additional LT may be 
appointed in schools for children with HI with 18 classes or more. 
 
(c) 
In special schools with 5 or more laboratories in the secondary section, 
one of the LTs may be appointed at the LT I level. 
 
(d) 
In a school for children with HI with more than 17 classes, one of the 
LTs appointed for the maintenance of audiological equipment and 
hearing aids may be appointed at the LT I level. 
 
(e) 
In a school for children with VI (school for children with VI cum IDD 
excluded), a LT II/III may be appointed for the maintenance of special 
equipment/technical aids, and for providing technical assistance in 
setting up and operating the equipment. 
 
 
3. 
School Social Workers 
 
(a) 
Special schools with 60 or fewer approved capacity will be provided 
with 1 school social worker, and subsequently 0.5 school social 
worker for every 30 students.  However, where a sponsor operates 2 
or more special schools, the ratio of provision may be applied to the 
combined capacity of the schools as if they were a single school.  
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
(b) 
School social workers should, in general, be ranked at the Senior 
Social Work Assistant (SSWA) level. 
 
(c) 
Social workers in the following categories of special schools should 
be ranked at the Assistant Social Work Officer (ASWO) level, if 
graduate social workers are employed; or at the SSWA level if the 
posts are filled by non-graduate social workers; 
 
(i) 
schools for social development (SSD); 
(ii) 
schools with senior secondary classes; or 
(iii) schools where there are 3 or more professional disciplines (e.g. 
speech therapists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and 
nurses) in addition to teachers and social workers, and where the 
social workers are given the additional responsibilities of a 
rehabilitation co-ordinator. 
 
 
 

=== Page 49 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
49 
 
4. 
Speech Therapists (ST) 
 
(a) 
Schools for children with VI, schools for children with HI, schools 
for children with VI cum IDD, schools for children with PD, and 
schools for children with IDD as well as SSD may appoint STs on the 
following scale: 
 
Type of School 
No. of Classes 
No. of ST 
(i)  
VI cum IDD, 
PD, 
MiIDD, 
MoIDD, 
Combined MiIDD and 
MoIDD, 
Combined 
MoIDD and SIDD, 
and 
Combined 
MiIDD, MoIDD and 
SIDD 
1 - 5 
6 - 10 
11 - 15 
16 - 20 
21 - 25 
26 - 30 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
(ii) 
SIDD 
1 - 5 
6 - 10 
11 - 15 
16 - 20 
1 
2 
2.5 
3 
(iii) HI 
1 ST by offsetting 1 of the TAST posts 
(iv) 
VI and SSD 
1 ST 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
(b) 
School for children with HI may appoint additional ST under the ESS 
for students with HI attending ordinary schools on the following scale: 
No. of units in ESS* 
No. of ST 
1 - 4 
1 
5 and above 
2 
* The number of approved units in the ESS for students with HI 
attending ordinary primary schools and ordinary secondary schools. 
The size of a unit is 1 - 25 students for ESS for primary schools and 
1 - 20 students for ESS for secondary schools. 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
 
 

=== Page 50 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
50 
 
5. 
Physiotherapists (PT) and Artisans 
 
(a) 
Schools for children with PD, schools for children with SIDD and the 
school for children with VI cum IDD may appoint 0.5 PT for every 15 
students and one artisan to support every 2 PTs. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
(b) 
The Staff Structure for PTs should be as follows: 
No. of PTs entitled 
Ranking of staff 
SPT 
PT I 
1 
1 
1.5 
1.5 
2 
2 
2.5 
2.5 
3 
3 
3.5 
3.5 
4 
4 
4.5 
4.5 
5 
5 
5.5 
5.5 
6 
1 
5 
6.5 
1 
5.5 
7 
1 
6 
7.5 
1 
6.5 
8 
1 
7 
8.5 
1 
7.5 
9 
1 
8 
9.5 
1 
8.5 
10 
1 
9 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
Note:  Starting from the 2021/22 school year, PT II posts within the 
approved establishment of special schools are upgraded to PT I 
posts.  Serving PT II will be accommodated until natural 
wastage or promoted to PT I. (updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
6. 
Occupational Therapists (OT) and Occupational Therapy Assistants (OTA) 
 
(a) 
Schools for children with PD, #schools for children with SIDD and 
the school for children with VI cum IDD may appoint 0.5 OT and 0.5 
OTA for every 15 students. 
# Also applicable to SIDD classes in other schools for children with 
IDD. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 

=== Page 51 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
51 
 
(b) 
The Staff Structure for OTs should be as follows: 
No. of OTs entitled 
Ranking of staff 
SOT 
OT I 
1 
1 
1.5 
1.5 
2 
2 
2.5 
2.5 
3 
3 
3.5 
3.5 
4 
4 
4.5 
4.5 
5 
5 
5.5 
5.5 
6 
1 
5 
6.5 
1 
5.5 
7 
1 
6 
7.5 
1 
6.5 
8 
1 
7 
8.5 
1 
7.5 
9 
1 
8 
9.5 
1 
8.5 
10 
1 
9 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(c) 
Starting from the 2017/18 s.y., #schools for children with MiIDD, 
# schools for children with MoIDD, the school for children with VI 
and the school for children with HI may appoint OTs and OTA on the 
following scale. 
# 
Also applicable to MiIDD and MoIDD classes in other schools 
for children with IDD. 
 
Type of School 
No. of Classes No. of   
OT I 
No. of 
OTA 
(i) MiIDD, MoIDD, VI and 
HI 
6 or more 
1 
1 
(ii) Combined MiIDD and 
MoIDD, Combined 
MoIDD and SIDD, 
Combined MiIDD, 
MoIDD and SIDD 
6 or more 
(MiIDD classes 
and MoIDD 
classes will be 
counted 
separately) 
1  
 
1 
 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
Note:  Starting from the 2021/22 school year, OT II posts within the 
approved establishment of special schools are upgraded to 
OT I posts.  Serving OT II will be accommodated until natural 
wastage or promoted to OT I.  (updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
 

=== Page 52 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
52 
 
7. 
Educational Psychologists (EPs) 
 
(a) 
Sponsoring bodies operating a minimum of 30 special school classes 
(except hospital school) may appoint school-based EPs.  While each EP 
may serve more than 1 special school under a particular sponsor, he/she 
will be employed by and stationed at one of the schools and considered 
as a member of the non-teaching specialist staff of that school.  
Provision ratios for EP to be employed by special schools are as follows: 
No. of Classes 
Operated by the Same Sponsor 
Provisions of EP(s) 
30 - 59 
1 
60 - 99 
2 
100 - 139 
3 
140 - 179 
4 
180 - 219 
5 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
(b) 
Special schools under different sponsoring bodies that could not benefit 
from the above EP provision may be allowed to group together and 
employ school-based EP by a school in the group in accordance with 
the provision ratios stipulated in the above paragraph 7(a).  Each 
appointed school-based EP will serve all the schools in the group.  
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
(c) 
The EP posts created in aided special schools are combined 
establishment, with the ranks of EP I and II.  Candidates having fully 
met the entry requirements for EP I, with at least 3 years of satisfactory 
service as an EP II, can be considered for direct appointment to EP I. 
Candidates not fully meeting the above criteria may be appointed as EP 
II, should they meet the entry requirements for this rank.  Guides to 
appointment of EP I and II are stipulated in Attachments J(i) and J(ii) 
of Appendix 4, and conditions for promotion of EP are stipulated in 
Appendix 5.  (updated on 13 June 2013) 
 
 
8. 
School Nurses 
 
(a) 
Schools for children with PD, schools for children with IDD, school for 
children with HI, school for children with VI and school for children 
with VI cum IDD may appoint full-time Registered Nurse(s) (RN) on 
the following scale: 
Type of School 
 
No. of Pupils 
No. of RN(s) 
(i) PD, SIDD, Combined MoIDD 
and 
SIDD, 
or 
Combined 
MiIDD, MoIDD and SIDD  
40 - 129 
130 or more 
2 
3 
(ii) MiIDD, MoIDD, Combined 
MiIDD and MoIDD, or VI 
cum IDD 
40 or more 
2 
(iii) VI or HI 
40 or more 
1 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 

=== Page 53 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
53 
 
(b) 
Registered Nurse (Psychiatric) 
Starting from the 2021/22 school year, for special schools with a total 
of two or more RNs on the approved establishment of both the school 
and boarding sections, when a vacancy for RN arises, they may, having 
regard to students’ needs, flexibly recruit not more than one Registered 
Nurse with psychiatric nursing training, i.e. Registered Nurse 
(Psychiatric), to fill the vacant post in the school section or the boarding 
section.  
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(c) 
Nursing Officer (NO) 
Starting from the 2021/22 school year, for special schools with a total 
of four or more RNs on the approved establishment of both the school 
and boarding sections, one in every four of these RN posts is upgraded 
to the rank of NO in the school section and/or the boarding section. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
9. 
Clerical Staff 
 
Special schools may appoint clerical staff on the following scale, 
which shall also apply in calculating the amount of the Administration Grant 
payable to it: 
 
Capacity at Full 
Development 
No. of Clerical Staff 
up to 49 
1 Clerical Assistant 
50 - 99 
1 Clerk Class II / Assistant Clerical Officer 
100 - 149 
1 Clerk Class II / Assistant Clerical Officer 
and 1 Clerical Assistant 
150 or more 
2 Clerk Class II / Assistant Clerical Officers 
 
 
10. 
Brailling Staff 
 
 
Schools for children with VI operating RSP for students with VI 
may appoint brailling staff at the ratio of: 
No. of Students with VI 
(Braille Users) registered 
under the RSP 
Provision of  
Brailling Staff 
9 
2 
The number of Brailling Staff under the RSP included in the staff entitlement 
is capped.  Any additional Brailling Staff incurred on top of the capped 
entitlement would be provided in form of cash grant, i.e. the Staff Encashment 
Grant.  The Education Bureau may review the cap as and when required.  
School should refer to relevant circular letter currently in force for the 
entitlement of the Brailling Staff and the amount of the Staff Encashment 
Grant incurred.  
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
 

=== Page 54 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
54 
 
11. 
Workshop Attendants 
 
Special schools may appoint 1 workshop attendant for each 
approved workshop. 
 
 
12. 
Janitor Staff 
 
The following scale shall apply in calculating the amount of the 
Administration Grant or the Revised Administration Grant payable to the 
school: 
 
(a) 
One third janitor staff may be allowed for every operating class and 
approved special room.  
 
(b) 
In schools for children with PD and schools for children with SIDD, 
0.75 janitor staff may be allowed for every operating class and 0.5 for 
every approved special room.  
 
(c) 
In schools for children with MoIDD and SIDD, schools for children 
with MiIDD, MoIDD and SIDD, one third janitor staff may be 
allowed for every operating MiIDD o r  MoIDD class, 0.75 janitor 
staff may be allowed for every operating SIDD class and 0.5 for 
every approved special room. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
Fractional staff will be rounded up after summation. 
 
 
13. 
Drivers 
 
(a) 
Schools for children with VI, schools for children with PD, schools 
for children with IDD, a  school for children with HI and SSD may 
appoint one driver for each registered school bus, subject to the 
number of students in need of the service. 
 
(b) 
Drivers in special schools will be ranked at Special Drivers.  
 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
14. 
Teacher Assistants (TAs) 
 
(a) TAs may be appointed in the following categories of special schools 
at the ratio of 1 TA per class: 
 
(i) 
schools for children with SIDD;  
(ii) 
#schools for children with MoIDD and SIDD; 
(iii) #schools for children with MiIDD, MoIDD and SIDD; 
(iv) school for children with VI cum IDD; 
(v) 
schools for children with PD; and 
(vi) psychiatric units in hospital schools. 
# Only SIDD classes will be counted for the provision of TA. 
 
 

=== Page 55 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
55 
 
(b) TAs may be appointed in the following categories of special schools 
at the ratio of 1 TA per 2 RTs for children comorbid with ASD.  When 
fractional staff results, it will be rounded down to the nearest 0.5: 
 
(i) 
schools for children with MiIDD; 
(ii) 
schools for children with MoIDD;  
(iii) schools for children with MiIDD and MoIDD;  
(iv) schools for children with MoIDD and SIDD; and 
(v) 
schools for children with MiIDD, MoIDD and SIDD.  
 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
15. 
School Executive Officers 
 
The Education Bureau creates the School Executive Officer 
posts in the approved non-teaching staff establishment in aided schools and 
invite schools to opt for creating these posts starting from the 2019/20 
school year.  Guides to appointment of School Executive Officer are 
stipulated in Attachment L of Appendix 4. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
B. 
BOARDING SECTION 
 
All special schools with an approved boarding section subvented by 
the Education Bureau may be provided with the following staff: 
 
1. 
Wardens 
 
(a) 
Special schools may appoint one warden for the boarding section. 
(b) 
The warden should, in general, be ranked at the Social Work Officer 
(SWO) level for a boarding section with a capacity of 40 boarders 
and above, or the ASWO level for a boarding section with a capacity 
of less than 40 boarders. 
(c) 
As an alternative rank for the warden grade, the post can be filled by 
non-graduate social workers at the Chief Social Work Assistant 
(CSWA) level for a boarding section with a capacity of 40 boarders 
and above, or the SSWA level for a boarding section with a capacity 
of less than 40 boarders. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
2. 
Assistant Wardens 
 
Assistant warden(s) may be appointed among the approved 
establishment of houseparents and programme workers.  2 assistant 
wardens may be appointed at the ASWO level for a boarding section with 
a capacity of 40 boarders and above.  As an alternative rank, the post can 
be filled by non-graduate social workers at the SSWA level.  For a 
boarding section with a capacity of less than 40 boarders, 1 assistant 
warden may be appointed at the Social Work Assistant (SWA) level.  
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 

=== Page 56 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
56 
 
3. 
Houseparents-in-charge 
 
For a boarding section with a capacity of 40 boarders and above, a 
houseparent-in-charge may be appointed amongst every 4 posts of 
houseparent.  The houseparent-in-charge should be ranked at the SWA level. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
4. 
Houseparents* 
 
Houseparents at SWA level may be appointed on the following scale: 
Categories of boarders 
Week-day ratio 
Saturday & Sunday 
ratio 
(in addition to the 
week-day provision) 
HI or VI 
2 for 15 boarders 
2 for 15 boarders 
MoIDD 
2 for 12 boarders 
2 for 12 boarders 
PD, SIDD, or VI cum 
IDD 
 
2 for 8 boarders 
2 for 8 boarders 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
5. 
Programme Workers* 
 
Programme workers at SWA level may be appointed on the 
following scale: 
 
 
Number of boarders 
 
 
For week-days 
For Saturdays & Sundays 
(in addition to the 
week-day provision) 
60 or less 
1 
1 
61 - 120 
2 
2 
121 or more 
3 
3 
 (updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
6. 
Nurses 
 
Nurses may be appointed on the following scale: 
 
Categories of boarders 
Week-day ratio 
Saturday & Sunday ratio 
(in addition to the 
week-day provision) 
HI, VI or MoIDD 
1 RN for 20 or 
more boarders 
1 RN for 20 or more 
boarders 
PD, SIDD, or VI cum 
IDD 
1 RN or EN for 25 
boarders 
1 RN or EN for 25 
boarders 
 
Where fractional staff results, this will be rounded up to the next 
whole number. 
 
For boarding sections of schools for children with MoIDD, schools 
for children with SIDD, schools for children with PD or schools for children 
with VI cum IDD, the minimum provision will be 1 nurse at any one time 

=== Page 57 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
57 
 
during the operational hours of the boarding section irrespective of its size. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
Starting from the 2021/22 school year, for special schools with a 
total of two or more RNs on the approved establishment of both the school 
and boarding sections, when a vacancy for RN arises, they may, having 
regard to students’ needs, flexibly recruit not more than one Registered 
Nurse with psychiatric nursing training, i.e. Registered Nurse (Psychiatric), 
to fill the vacant post in the school section or the boarding section. 
 (updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
Starting from the 2021/22 school year, for special schools with a 
total of four or more RNs on the approved establishment of both the school 
and boarding sections, one in every four of these RN posts is upgraded to 
the rank of NO in the school section and/or boarding section. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
7. 
Clerical Assistants (CAs) 
 
1 CA may be appointed for each boarding section.  This shall also 
apply in calculating the amount of the Administration Grant payable to the 
school. 
 
 
 
8. 
Cooks 
 
Cooks may be appointed on the following scale: 
 
 
Number of boarders 
 
 
For week-days 
For Saturdays & Sundays 
(in addition to the 
week-day provision) 
39 or less 
2 
2 
40 - 79
3
3
80 or more 
4 
4 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
9. 
Watchmen 
 
4 Watchmen may be appointed for each boarding section offering 7-
day boarding service.  2 Watchmen may be appointed for each boarding 
section offering 5-day boarding service only. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
 

=== Page 58 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
58 
 
10. 
Janitor Staff* 
 
The following scale shall apply in calculating the amount of the 
Administration Grant or the Revised Administration Grant payable to the 
school: 
 
 
Categories of boarders 
Week-day ratio 
Saturday & Sunday ratio 
(in addition to the  
week-day provision) 
HI 
1 for 20 or fewer 
boarders 
1 for 20 or fewer 
boarders 
VI or MoIDD 
1 for 15 or fewer 
boarders 
1 for 15 or fewer 
boarders 
PD, SIDD, or VI cum 
IDD 
 
1 for 10 or fewer 
boarders 
1 for 10 or fewer 
boarders 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
 
*  In calculating the number of staff for houseparents, programme workers and 
janitor staff, individual fractions of these 3 grades will be added together and 
the fraction resulting, if any, will be rounded up to the next whole number.  Posts 
created after summation and rounding up of the fraction may be appointed as 
houseparent/programme worker/janitor staff at the discretion of the school to 
meet operational needs. 

=== Page 59 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
59 
 
Appendix 2/Attachment A 
 
Ranking of Heads of Special Schools 
 
A. 
Special schools with combined levels or secondary special schools 
 
1. 
The ranking of Heads of aided special schools with combined levels or 
secondary special schools is determined on the basis of the number of 
equivalent ordinary secondary classes worked out according to the following 
weighting system and relativity ratio: 
 
(a) 
Weighting system 
 
1 primary, junior secondary or senior secondary class in special schools  
= 1 equivalent special class 
 
(b) 
Relativity of headship ranking between special schools and ordinary 
schools: 
 
A school with 18 equivalent special classes 
=  A school with 24 ordinary secondary classes 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 
2. 
The converted number of equivalent ordinary secondary classes, with fractional 
numbers rounded off, will determine the headship rank for a special school in 
accordance with the following scale: 
Number of equivalent 
ordinary secondary classes 
Headship rank 
 
18 or more 
Principal II (Pr II) / ** Principal I (Pr I) 
 
12 to 17 
Principal II (Pr II) 
 
11 or less 
Principal Graduate Master/Mistress (PGM) 
Where fractional class results, this will be rounded off. 
** 
Pr I post will only be provided for special schools operating senior 
secondary class(es) with 18 or more equivalent ordinary secondary 
classes. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
 

=== Page 60 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
60 
 
B. 
Primary special schools 
 
1. 
The ranking of Heads of aided primary special schools is determined by the 
number of equivalent ordinary primary classes worked out according to the 
following relativity ratio: 
 
A school with 18 special classes  
=  A school with 24 ordinary primary classes 
 
2. 
The converted number of equivalent ordinary primary classes, with fractional 
numbers rounded off, will determine the headship rank for a special school in 
accordance with the following scale: 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
Number of equivalent 
ordinary primary classes 
Headship rank 
24 or more 
Headmaster/Headmistress I (HM I) 
12 to 23 
Headmaster/Headmistress II (HM II) 
11 or less* 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
(SPSM) 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
* The teaching establishment is inclusive of the Head of the school (SPSM 
level) with 4 equivalent ordinary primary classes. 
 

=== Page 61 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
61 
 
Appendix 2/Attachment B 
 
Teaching Staff Establishment for 
Primary Section of Special Schools 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
[The total teaching staff entitlement in the table below includes teachers provided according to the teacher-to-class 
ratios as specified in Appendix 2 Section A Part 1 (i.e. Basic Provision) and the additional teaching posts counted 
towards promotion posts.] 
 
 
Total Teaching 
Staff Entitlement  
(Excluding Head ) 
Number of Posts in Each Rank 
PSM  
APSM 
1 
- 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
1 
2 
4 
1 
3 
5 
2 
3 
6 
2 
4 
7 
2 
5 
8 
3 
5 
9 
3 
6 
10 
3 
7 
11 
4 
7 
12 
4 
8 
13 
4 
9 
14 
5 
9 
15 
5 
10 
16 
5 
11 
17 
6 
11 
18 
6 
12 
19 
6 
13 
20 
7 
13 
21 
7 
14 
22 
7 
15 
23 
8 
15 
24 
8 
16 
25 
8 
17 
26 
9 
17 
27 
9 
18 
28 
9 
19 
29 
10 
19 
30 
10 
20 
31 
10 
21 
32 
11 
21 
33 
11 
22 

=== Page 62 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
62 
 
Total Teaching 
Staff Entitlement  
(Excluding Head ) 
Number of Posts in Each Rank 
PSM  
APSM 
34 
11 
23 
35 
12 
23 
36 
12 
24 
37 
12 
25 
38 
13 
25 
39 
13 
26 
40 
13 
27 
41 
14 
27 
42 
14 
28 
43 
14 
29 
44 
15 
29 
45 
15 
30 
46 
15 
31 
47 
16 
31 
48 
16 
32 
 
Note: 
 
1.  
 
 
 
2. 
 
Please refer to Appendix 2 Section A Part 1(c) for the deputy head in a primary 
special school or special school with both primary and secondary sections.  
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
Starting from the 2022/23 school year, the additional teaching posts generated 
from the 0.1 increase in teacher-to-class ratio as from the 2017/18 school year 
are included in the calculation of promotion posts.  The provision of senior 
teacher posts in the primary section of special schools is improved from 1 senior 
teacher post for every 4 teacher posts to 1 senior teacher post for every 3 teacher 
posts.   
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 

=== Page 63 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
63 
 
Appendix 2/Attachment C 
Teaching Staff Establishment for Secondary Section of Special Schools 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
[The total teaching staff entitlement in the table below includes teachers provided according to the teacher-to-class 
ratios as specified in Appendix 2 Section A Part 1, (i.e. Basic Provision.) and the additional teaching posts counted 
towards promotion posts.] 
 
Total Teaching Staff 
Entitlement (Excluding 
Head) 
Number of Posts in Each Rank 
SGM 
GM 
1 
0 
1 
2 
1 
1 
3 
1 
2 
4 
2 
2 
5 
2 
3 
6 
2 
4 
7 
3 
4 
8 
3 
5 
9 
4 
5 
10 
4 
6 
11 
5 
6 
12 
5 
7 
13 
5 
8 
14 
6 
8 
15 
6 
9 
16 
7 
9 
17 
7 
10 
18 
7 
11 
19 
8 
11 
20 
8 
12 
21 
9 
12 
22 
9 
13 
23 
10 
13 
24 
10 
14 
25 
10 
15 
26 
11 
15 
27 
11 
16 
28 
12 
16 
29 
12 
17 
30 
12 
18 
31 
13 
18 
32 
13 
19 
33 
14 
19 
34 
14 
20 
35 
15 
20 
36 
15 
21 
37 
15 
22 
38 
16 
22 
39 
16 
23 
40 
17 
23 
41 
17 
24 
42 
17 
25 
 
 
 

=== Page 64 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
64 
 
 
Total Teaching Staff 
Entitlement (Excluding 
Head) 
Number of Posts in Each Rank 
SGM 
GM 
43 
18 
25 
44 
18 
26 
45 
19 
26 
46 
19 
27 
47 
20 
27 
48 
20 
28 
49 
20 
29 
50 
21 
29 
51 
21 
30 
52 
22 
30 
53 
22 
31 
54 
22 
32 
55 
23 
32 
56 
23 
33 
57 
24 
33 
58 
24 
34 
59 
25 
34 
60 
25 
35 
61 
25 
36 
62 
26 
36 
63 
26 
37 
64 
27 
37 
65 
27 
38 
66 
27 
39 
67 
28 
39 
68 
28 
40 
69 
29 
40 
70 
29 
41 
71 
30 
41 
72 
30 
42 
73 
30 
43 
74 
31 
43 
75 
31 
44 
76 
32 
44 
77 
32 
45 
78 
32 
46 
79 
33 
46 
80 
33 
47 
81 
34 
47 
82 
34 
48 
83 
35 
48 
84 
35 
49 
85 
35 
50 
86 
36 
50 
87 
36 
51 
88 
37 
51 
89 
37 
52 
90 
37 
53 
 
 

=== Page 65 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
65 
 
Note: 
 
1. Please refer to Appendix 2 Section A Part 1(c) for the vice-principal in a secondary special 
school or special school with both primary and secondary sections. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
2. 1 post in the rank of GM is upgraded to SGM in an aided special school operating 15 or 
more equivalent ordinary secondary classes*. 
 
3. Among the graduate teaching posts, the proportion of SGM and PGM posts should not 
exceed five-twelfths.  This proportion excludes 1 GM post upgraded to SGM in an aided 
special school operating 15 or more equivalent ordinary secondary classes*.  
 
* 
The respective weighting system: 
 
• 
1 primary, junior secondary or senior secondary class in special schools = 1 equivalent 
special class 
• 
A school with 18 equivalent special classes = A school with 24 ordinary secondary 
classes 
 
(updated on 1 September 2023) 

=== Page 66 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
66 
 
 
List of Abbreviation in Appendix 2 
Certificated Master/Mistress 
 
CM 
Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
AM 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
SAM 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
PAM 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
APSM 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
PSM 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
SPSM 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
HM II 
Headmaster/Headmistress I 
 
HM I 
Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
GM 
Senior Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
SGM 
Principal Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
PGM 
Principal II 
 
Pr II 
Principal I 
 
Pr I 
Chief Social Work Assistant 
 
CSWA 
Senior Social Work Assistant 
 
SSWA 
Social Work Assistant 
 
SWA 
Social Work Officer 
 
SWO 
Assistant Social Work Officer 
 
ASWO 
Enrolled Nurse 
 
EN 
Registered Nurses 
 
RN 
Registered Nurses (Psychiatric) 
 
RN(Psy) 
Nursing Officer 
 
NO 
School Executive Officer  
 
Sch ExO 
Autism Spectrum Disorder 
 
ASD 
Visual Impairment 
 
VI 
Hearing Impairment 
 
HI 
Intellectual Developmental Disorder 
 
IDD2 
Mild Intellectual Developmental Disorder 
 
MiIDD 
Moderate Intellectual Developmental Disorder 
 
MoIDD 
Severe Intellectual Developmental Disorder 
 
SIDD 
Physical Disability 
 
PD 
Schools for Social Development 
 
SSD 
Resource Support Programme 
 
RSP 
Enhanced Support Service 
 
ESS 
 
 
 
2 
The term “intellectual developmental disorder (IDD)” has replaced “intellectual disability (ID)” 
to align with the latest international and professional practice.  (updated on 1 September 2025) 

=== Page 67 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
67 
 
Appendix 3 
 
Salary Scales and Allowances 
 
This Appendix should be read in conjunction with Appendix 4. 
 
I. 
SALARY SCALES (updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
A. School Section 
 
 
Grade/Rank 
Salary Scale 
(Points on the MPS) 
 
1. 
Principal I (Pr I) 
45 - 49 
2. 
Principal II (Pr II) 
40 - 44 
3. 
Principal Graduate Master/Mistress (PGM) 
38 - 41 
4. 
Senior Graduate Master/Mistress (SGM) 
34 - 39 
 
5. 
Graduate Master/Mistress (GM) 
17 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
12 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
17 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
15 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
 
A GM will not be allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar specified below 
without acquiring a Post-Graduate Certificate in Education or an equivalent 
qualification acceptable to the Permanent Secretary: 
Date appointed 
Salary Bar 
Between 5.12.1980 and 31.8.1997 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 27 
Between 1.9.1997 and 31.3.2000 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 22 
Between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 17 
Between 1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 22 
On or after 1.10.2010 
Point 20 
 
Remarks: With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at 5 pay points 
above the prevailing starting salary and would be adjusted automatically whenever 
there is a change in the starting salary in the future.  A serving untrained GM 
without a break in service is subject to the adjusted salary bar or the highest salary 
bar point he/she has ever experienced in the appointment as GM, whichever is the 
higher. 

=== Page 68 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
68 
 
 
6. 
(a) 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress (PAM)#@ 
34 - 36 
(b) 
Headmaster/Headmistress I (HM I) 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
43 - 46 
7. 
(a) 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress (SAM)#@ 
30 - 33 
(b) 
Headmaster/Headmistress II (HM II) 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
40 - 43 
 
8. 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress (SPSM) 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
34 - 39 
 
9. 
(a) 
Assistant Master/Mistress (AM)#@ 
25 - 29 
(b) 
Primary School Master/Mistress (PSM) 
30 - 33 
 
10.   (a) 
Certificated Master/Mistress (CM)@ 
14 - 24 if appointed 
before 1.4.2000 
12 - 24 if appointed 
between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
14 - 24 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
Untrained teachers will not be allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar as 
shown below: 
Date appointed 
Salary Bar 
Between 1.1.1991 and 31.3.2000 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 19 
Between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 17 
On or after 1.8.2007 
Point 19 
 
 
Remarks: With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at 5 pay 
points above the prevailing starting salary and would be adjusted 
automatically whenever there is a change in the starting salary in the future. 
A serving untrained CM without a break in service is subject to the adjusted 
salary bar or the highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as CM, whichever is the higher. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 69 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
69 
 
(b) 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
(APSM) 
17 - 29 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
12 - 29 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
17 - 29 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
15 - 29 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
 
 
Untrained teachers will not be allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar as 
shown below: 
Date appointed 
Salary Bar 
Before 1.4.2000 
Point 27 
Between 1.4.2000 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
Point 22 
On or after 1.10.2010 
Point 20 
 
Remarks : With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be set at 5 pay 
points above the prevailing starting salary and would be adjusted 
automatically whenever there is a change in the starting salary in the future.  
A serving untrained APSM without a break in service is subject to the adjusted 
salary bar or the highest salary bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as APSM, whichever is the higher. 
 
11. Unqualified Teacher (UQT) 
4 
 
#   No non-degree holders should be appointed as new primary special school heads.  Serving 
heads at AM, SAM and PAM rank who are non-degree holders will be accommodated 
until natural wastage.   
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
@  With the full implementation of the all-graduate teaching force policy starting from the 
2019/20 school year, no newly-joined teachers should be appointed as CM, or directly 
appointed as or promoted to AM, SAM or PAM upon the phasing out of the non-graduate 
grade.  Serving non-graduate teachers at CM, AM, SAM and PAM rank will be 
accommodated in their current post until natural wastage or regraded to the graduate grade.  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 

=== Page 70 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
70 
 
12. School Social Worker 
(a) 
Senior Social Work Assistant (SSWA) 
23 - 29 
(b) 
Assistant Social Work Officer (ASWO) 
18 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
16 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 20, 24 and 30) 
 
 
13. Speech Therapist (ST) 
18 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
16 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
 
14. Senior Physiotherapist (SPT) 
34 - 39 
15. Physiotherapist I (PT I) 
25 - 34 
(with omitted point at Point 30) 
16. Physiotherapist II (PT II) 
14 - 24 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
12 - 24 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
14 - 24 if appointed  
on/after 1.8.2007 
17. Senior Occupational Therapist (SOT) 
34 - 39 
18. Occupational Therapist I (OT I) 
25 - 34 
19. Occupational Therapist II (OT II) 
14 - 24 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
12 - 24 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
14 - 24 if appointed  
on/after 1.8.2007  
(Note: with omitted points at Point 16) 

=== Page 71 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
71 
 
20. Occupational Therapy Assistant (OTA) 
7 - 15 
21. Educational Psychologist I (EP I) 
34 - 44 
22. Educational Psychologist II (EP II) 
25 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
20 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
25 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
23 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
 
23. Registered Nurse (RN) 
15 - 25 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
13 - 25 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
15 - 25 if appointed  
on/after 1.8.2007  
(with omitted point at  
Point 17 & 21)  
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 17 and 21) 
24 Registered Nurses (Psychiatric) 
17 - 26 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
 
25. Nursing Officer (NO)  
26 - 34 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
26. Laboratory Technician I (LT I) 
22 - 28 
 
27. Laboratory Technician II (LT II) 
10 - 21 if appointed 
before 1.4.2000 
 
 
6 - 21 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
 
8 - 21 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
(Note: LT III appointed before 1.8.2007 will, upon promotion to LT II without a 
break of service, be paid the starting pay point at MPS Point 8) 
 
28. Brailling Staff 
8 - 15 if appointed  
before 1.4.2000 
4 - 15 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
6 - 15 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 

=== Page 72 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
72 
 
 
29. Clerk Class II/Assistant Clerical Officer (ACO) 
3 - 15 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
2 - 15 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
3 - 15 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
30. Clerical Assistant (CA) 
1 - 10 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
0 - 10 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
1 - 10 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
31. Artisan  
6 - 8 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
5 - 8 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000 
 
32. Special Driver  
9 - 10 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
 
 
8 - 10 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000 
 
33. Motor Driver 
6 - 8 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
5 - 8 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000 
 
 
 
(Points on the TPS) 
34. Laboratory Technician III (LT III) 
4 - 6 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
3 - 6 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
4 - 6 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
 
 
(Points on Model Scale I) 
35. Workshop Attendant (WA) 
4 - 8 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
3 - 13 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000 
 
 
 

=== Page 73 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
73 
 
  
 
 
(Points on Model Scale I) 
36. Teacher Assistant 
1 - 3 if appointed before 
1.4.2000 
0 - 8 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000 
 
37. School Executive Officer (Sch ExO) 
15 -27 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 
Supply Teachers 
 
 
Appointment 
Salary per Working Day 
(a) Secondary Section 
 
Refer to the relevant circulars on 
Revised Daily Rates Pay for 
Supply Teachers currently in force 
Graduate 
 
Non-graduate 
 
Unqualified teacher 
 
 
(b) Primary Section 
 
Qualified Teacher 
 
Unqualified Teacher 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 74 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
74 
 
B. Boarding Section 
 
 
Salary Scale 
 
Grade 
(Points on the MPS) 
1. 
Warden 
(a) Social Work Officer (SWO) 
34 - 39 
(b) Assistant Social Work Officer (ASWO) 
18 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
16 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 20, 24 and 30) 
(c) Chief Social Work Assistant (CSWA) 
30 - 33 
(d) Senior Social Work Assistant (SSWA) 
23 - 29 
 
2. 
Assistant Warden 
(a) Assistant Social Work Officer (ASWO) 
18 - 33 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
13 - 33 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
18 - 33 if appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
16 - 33 if appointed 
on/after 1.10.2010  
(b) Senior Social Work Assistant (SSWA) 
23 - 29 
(c) Social Work Assistant (SWA) 
11 - 22 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
 
7 - 22 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
 
9 - 22 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007  
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 13) 
 
3. 
Houseparent-in-charge 
11 - 22 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
7 - 22 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
9 - 22 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 13) 
 

=== Page 75 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
75 
 
4. 
Houseparent 
11 - 22 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
7 - 22 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
9 - 22 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 13) 
 
5. 
Programme Worker 
11 - 22 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
7 - 22 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
9 - 22 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 13) 
 
 
6. 
Registered Nurse (RN) 
15 - 25 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
13 - 25 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
15 - 25 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007  
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 17 and 21) 
 
 7. 
Registered Nurses (Psychiatric)  
17 - 26 
 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
8. 
Nursing Officer (NO) 
26 - 34 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
9. 
Enrolled Nurse (EN) 
9 - 21 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
5 - 21 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
7 - 21 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
(Note: with omitted points at Point 11 and 15) 
 
 
10. Clerical Assistant (CA) 
1 - 10 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
0 - 10 if appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 
(both dates inclusive) 
 
1 - 10 if appointed 
on/after 1.8.2007 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 76 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
76 
 
11. Cook 
6 - 8 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
5 - 8 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000  
 
 
(Points on Model Scale I) 
12. Watchman 
4 - 8 if appointed before  
1.4.2000 
 
3 - 13 if appointed 
on/after 1.4.2000  
 
 
 
Supply Staff and Relief Workers 
 
 
Appointment 
Salary per Working Day 
Registered Nurse 
 
Refer to the relevant circulars on 
Revised Daily Rates Pay for 
Supply Staff currently in force 
Enrolled Nurse 
 
Houseparent 
 
Cook 
 
Clerk Class II/Assistant Clerical Officer 
 
Clerical Assistant 
 
Special Driver 
 
Motor Driver 
 
Teacher Assistant 
 

=== Page 77 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
77 
 
 
II. 
ALLOWANCES 
 
A. 
Head’s Responsibility Allowance: Boarding Section 
 
(i) Prior to 1 September 2003 
 
In recognition of the additional responsibility undertaken by the Head of a 
special school with an approved boarding section, the Supervisor may 
recommend that the Head should receive a special allowance equivalent to 
15% of the mid-point of the salary scale for SSWA. 
 
(ii) On or after 1 September 2003 
 
The responsibility allowance will be payable to the Head of a special school 
with an approved boarding section on condition that he/she should not be 
paid other job-related allowance.  The allowance should be equivalent to 
15% of the mid-point of the salary scale for SSWA. 
 
B. 
Boarding Staff’s Responsibility Allowance 
 
(i) A responsibility allowance will be payable to assistant wardens at SWA 
rank of aided special schools at the rate of 2 increments above their 
substantive pay. 
 
(ii) A responsibility allowance will be payable to houseparents-in-charge at 
SWA rank of aided special schools at the rate of 2 increments above their 
substantive pay. 
 
 
C. 
Special Education Allowance 
 
(i) Prior to 1 September 2003 
 
(a) A special education allowance (SEA) may be awarded to staff in the 
ranks of CM/AM/SAM/PAM / GM/SGM/PGM / Pr II/Pr I / APSM/PSM/ 
HM II/HM I, while serving in such capacity in a special school, who 
have successfully completed a recognised course of training in special 
education run by the Hong Kong Institute of Education, or a course 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary as an equivalent.  The allowance 
will be at a rate equivalent to 2  increments next on the Master Pay 
Scale above the level of their substantive pay. 
(b) For Heads of aided special schools holding a Pr I post, their substantive 
salary plus SEA should not exceed the top of the Master Pay Scale, that 
is, Master Pay Scale Point 49. 
(c) Staff in the above ranks appointed as temporary replacements will be 
eligible for the SEA if they have completed special education training 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
 

=== Page 78 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
78 
 
(d) Part-time staff in the above ranks will be eligible for the SEA on a 
pro-rata basis if they have completed special education training 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(ii) On or after 1 September 2003 
 
The SEA will cease to be payable to new recruits and existing teaching staff 
who have not yet commenced their recognised special education training in 
the 2002/03 school year.  As for the existing teaching staff of special schools, 
who are in receipt of the SEA or pursuing their studies in recognised special 
education courses, the following arrangements will apply: 
 
(a) Teaching staff of special schools, including Pr I, who are in receipt of 
the SEA will retain an SEA of one salary point above their substantive 
salary, provided that the sum of their substantive salary and the SEA 
should not exceed their maximum pay point on their respective pay 
scale regardless of their existing pay point, except in the circumstances 
specified in sub-paragraph (b) below. 
 
(b) Teaching staff of special schools who have already reached the 
maximum pay point in the 2002/03 school year will be allowed to 
retain an SEA of one salary point above the maximum pay point. 
 
(c) Teaching staff of special schools who are pursuing their studies in 
recognised special education courses in the 2002/03 school year are, in 
principle, allowed to be paid an SEA of one salary point above their 
substantive salary with effect from September of the following school 
year on successful completion of the recognised special education 
courses, provided that they remain as teaching staff of special schools.  
However, the sum of their substantive salaries and the SEA should not 
exceed their maximum pay point on their respective pay scales. 
 
(d) Teaching staff of special schools who are in receipt of other 
responsibility allowance are not allowed to retain the SEA. 
 
(e) The above arrangements will also be applicable to the existing teaching 
staff of special education on transfer to another aided special school 
without a break of service, provided that the posts they fill 
(i) have been created in the 2002/03 school year; or 
(ii) are created after the 2002/03 school year due to expansion of classes  
or with explicit permission of the Education Bureau for the post-
holders to retain their SEA. 
 
Teaching staff of special education refers to teachers of special classes, 
intensive 
remedial 
teaching 
programmes, 
integrated 
education 
programmes, aided special schools, practical schools and skills 
opportunity schools.  

=== Page 79 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
79 
 
 
D. 
Acting Allowance (updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
A full-time PGM/SGM/GM of the secondary section and HM II, SPSM, 
PSM or APSM of the primary section of the school who has been 
recommended and approved to take up the functional duties of a higher office 
in the rank of Pr I/Pr II/PGM/SGM/ HM I/ HM II/SPSM or PSM as appropriate 
on an acting basis for a qualifying period of not less than 30 calendar days will 
be entitled to draw an acting allowance for the period concerned as follows: 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
(i) 
In the case of acting-up with replacement (this involves acting in a 
functional post which carries a higher maximum salary point than that 
of the teacher’s substantive rank) - 90% of the difference between the 
teacher’s substantive salary and the minimum salary of the higher rank 
in which he is acting; or at a rate equivalent to 90% of the increment next 
on the rank-scale of the acting post above the level of the teacher’s 
substantive salary if it is the same or more than the minimum salary of the 
acting post.  The rate will be revised to 100% of the difference after the 
first 180 calendar days of acting.  (Note 11) (updated on 1 November 
2012) 
 
(ii) 
In the case of doubling-up without replacement provided (this involves 
acting in a headship post which carries a higher maximum salary point than 
that of the teacher’s substantive rank in addition to undertaking his own 
duties) - 23% of the minimum salary of the higher rank or 100% of the 
difference in pay between the teacher’s substantive salary and the minimum 
salary of the higher rank in which he/she is acting, whichever is the more.  
(Note 11)  (updated on 1 November 2012) 
 
 
Note:  1. A full-time AM in the primary section of the school who has been 
recommended and approved to take up the functional duties of SPSM 
will be entitled to draw an acting allowance as mentioned above. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. With the full implementation of the all-graduate teaching force policy 
from the 2019/20 school year, the promotion mechanism for the non-
graduate grade will cease to operate.  In other words, no CM, AM or 
SAM could be approved to acting up a promotion post in the non-
graduate grade through promotion/selection exercise starting from 
2019/20 school year.   
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 

=== Page 80 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
80 
 
 
3. The minimum 30-calendar-day qualifying period shall include 
intervening Sundays and public holidays, and Sundays and public 
holidays immediately preceding and following the acting period.   
However, Sundays and public holidays immediately preceding and 
following the acting period will not be included in calculating the acting 
allowance. 
 
4. School holidays can be counted as qualifying period and attract acting 
allowances provided that the teachers concerned are required to 
perform duties of the acting posts during the holidays.  Such 
qualifying period should be recognised and properly recorded by 
school. 
 
5. The qualifying period may include up to a maximum of 3 
consecutive days’ leave or absence in total (excluding sick leave and 
absences for authorised training and duty) taken during the acting 
period.  Leave and absences in excess of 3 days will not be counted 
as part of the qualifying period. 
 
6. Leave exceeding 3 consecutive working days involves the forfeiture of 
acting allowance for the whole period of the acting staff’s leave (i.e. 
leave and intervening public holidays and Sundays).  (updated on 1 
November 2012) 
 
7. When a teacher acts in different ranks consecutively, each acting 
appointment should be counted individually and separately and 
cannot be aggregated for the purpose of meeting the minimum 
qualifying period for acting allowances. 
 
8. A teacher shall only draw one acting allowance at any one time and 
schools should not make concurrent multiple acting appointments. 
 
9. Acting appointments can be made on operational grounds even if no 
acting allowance is payable. 
 
10.  Acting allowances will be treated as salary for provident fund 
purposes.  
 
11.  The rate of acting allowance takes effect on 1 September 2004. 
 
 

=== Page 81 ===
81 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4 
 
 
Qualifications Required for Grades of Appointments in Aided Special Schools 
 
A. 
Teaching Staff 
 
1. 
 Pr I / Pr II / PGM / SGM / GM / PAM / SAM / AM / CM / HM I / HM II / 
SPSM / PSM / APSM  
 
The guides to appointment in respect of the grades and ranks, 
Principal I, Principal II, Principal Graduate Master/Mistress, Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress, Graduate Master/Mistress, Principal Assistant 
Master/Mistress, Senior Assistant Master/Mistress, Assistant Master/ 
Mistress, Certificated Master/Mistress, Headmaster/Headmistress I, 
Headmaster/Headmistress II, Senior Primary School Master/Mistress, 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress 
and 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress are at Attachments A to I.  (updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
With effect from the 2004/05 school year, aspiring Principals 
are required to attain Certification for Principalship in addition to 
complying with the appointment conditions in force at the time before they 
could be considered for their appointment to principalship. 
 
With effect from the 2019/20 school year, all teaching posts on 
the approved establishment of aided schools are graduate teacher posts, 
including additional teaching posts that are provided for schools under 
various measures.  Newly-joined teachers (including those with a break of 
service exceeding one year) should possess a local bachelor’s degree (or 
equivalent) and satisfy all the entry requirements and standing conditions 
in force at the time before they could be considered for appointment to the 
graduate teacher posts.  Serving non-graduate teachers at CM, AM, SAM 
and PAM rank will be accommodated in their current posts until natural 
wastage or regraded to the corresponding rank in the graduate grade. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
Starting from the 2022/23 school year, newly-appointed regular 
teachers and monthly-paid temporary teachers in public sector schools are 
required to pass the Basic Law Test in order to be considered for 
appointment.  Starting from the 2023/24 school year, the test covers the 
Basic Law and the National Security Law.  Apart from regular teachers, 
newly-appointed teachers remunerated with cash grant are also required to 
obtain a pass in the Basic Law and National Security Law Test.  The 
requirement applies to all ranks of the teacher grade (including principals).  

=== Page 82 ===
82 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
The requirement is not applicable to teachers such as daily-rated supply 
teachers and teachers employed under the Native-speaking English Teacher 
Scheme in public sector schools.  
(updated on 1 September 2023) 
 
2. 
Teacher Assisting in Speech Therapy (TAST)  (updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
2.1 
To be eligible for appointment as TASTs in schools for children 
with hearing impairment, candidates must: 
 
(a) 
meet the qualifications for appointment as a Graduate 
Master/Mistress 
or 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress as appropriate;  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
be assessed to have normal hearing and be free from speech 
and language impairment; and 
 
(c) 
be fluent in Cantonese. 
 
2.2 
The duties of a TAST are as follows: 
 
(a) 
to provide evaluation of the speech and language abilities, and 
individual and group training to students with speech and 
language impairment as prescribed by speech therapist(s); 
 
(b) 
to work in collaboration with speech therapists and classroom 
teachers on speech/language support programmes; and 
 
(c) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
 
3. 
Mobility Instructor 
 
3.1 
To be eligible for appointment as Mobility Instructors, candidates 
must: 
 
(a) 
meet the qualifications for appointment as a Graduate 
Master/Mistress 
or 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress as appropriate;  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
be fluent in Cantonese; and 
 
(c) 
have completed or be prepared to undergo a training course 
for mobility instructors recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary. 
 
3.2 
The duties of a Mobility Instructor are as follows: 
 
(a) 
to provide training in orientation and mobility instruction to 
pupils with visual impairment; and 
 
(b) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
 

=== Page 83 ===
83 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
4. 
Resource Teacher  (updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
4.1 
Resource Teacher for Children with Visual Impairment 
 
(a) 
To be eligible for appointment as resource teachers for 
children with visual impairment, candidates must meet the 
qualifications for appointment as a Graduate Master/Mistress 
or an Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress as appropriate. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
The duties of a resource teacher for children with visual 
impairment are as follows: 
(i) 
to provide remedial teaching and resource support to the 
children with visual impairment studying in ordinary 
schools and special schools other than those for the 
children with visual impairment; and 
(ii) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
 
4.2 
Resource Teacher for Children comorbid with Autism Spectrum 
Disorder 
 
(a) 
To be eligible for appointment as resource teachers for children 
comorbid with autism spectrum disorder, candidates must 
meet the qualifications for appointment as a Graduate 
Master/Mistress 
or 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress as appropriate. 
 
(b) 
The duties of a resource teacher for children comorbid with 
autism spectrum disorder are as follows: 
(i) 
to provide remedial support to children comorbid with 
autism spectrum disorder assessed to have such a need 
in schools for children with IDD, schools for children 
with VI, a school for children with HI, schools for children 
with PD and schools for social development; and 
(ii) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
4.3 
Resource Teachers for Enhanced Support Service (ESS) for Students 
with Hearing Impairment 
 
(a) 
To be eligible for appointment as resource teachers for 
Enhanced Support Service, candidates must meet the 
qualifications for appointment as an Assistant Primary School 
Master/Mistress or a Graduate Master/Mistress. 
 
(b) 
The duties of a resource teacher for Enhanced Support Service 
are as follows: 
(i) 
to provide remedial support to children with hearing 
impairment admitted in ordinary and special schools other 
than the school for children with hearing impairment; and 
(ii) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 

=== Page 84 ===
84 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
5. Low-vision Training Teacher 
 
5.1 
To be eligible for appointment as low-vision training teachers, 
candidates must: 
 
(a) 
meet the qualifications for appointment as an Assistant Primary 
School Master/Mistress;  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
be fluent in Cantonese; and 
 
(c) 
have completed or be prepared to undergo a training course 
on low-vision. 
 
5.2 
The duties of a low-vision training teacher are as follows: 
 
(a) 
to provide low-vision training for children with visual 
impairment; and 
 
(b) 
to perform such other duties as may be required. 
 
B. 
Laboratory Technicians 
 
1. 
Laboratory Technician III 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Laboratory 
Technician III, a candidate must have:  
(a) 
Level 2 or above attained in 5 subjects, including English 
Language and 2 science education subjects (i.e. Physics, 
Chemistry, Biology or Combined Science Note 1) in the Hong 
Kong 
Diploma 
of 
Secondary 
Education 
Examination 
(HKDSEE), or equivalent; or  
(b) 
Level 2Note 2 / Grade E or above attained in 5 subjects, including 
English Language and 2 science subjects (e.g. Physics, 
Chemistry or Biology) in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent.  
Notes:  
1. 
For the purpose of appointment of Laboratory Technicians in aided 
schools, Level 2 or above in both components of the Combined Science 
subject in the HKDSEE can be counted as 2 science subjects.  
Applicants should also possess 4 other subjects at Level 2 or above, or 
equivalent. 
2. 
For the purpose of appointment of Laboratory Technicians in aided 
schools, Grade C and Grade E in Chinese Language and English 
Language (Syllabus B) in the HKCEE before 2007 are accepted 
administratively as comparable to Level 3 and Level 2 respectively in 
Chinese Language and English Language in the 2007 HKCEE and 
henceforth. 
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
 

=== Page 85 ===
85 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
2. 
Laboratory Technician II 
 
This is a promotion post for Laboratory Technician III. 
The 
conditions for promotion are set out at Appendix 5. 
 
 
3. 
Laboratory Technician I 
 
This is a promotion post for Laboratory Technician II.  Such 
posts will only be established, however, in large special schools and in a 
school for children with hearing impairment with more than 17 classes 
at the discretion of the Permanent Secretary.  The conditions for promotion 
are set out at Appendix 5. 
 
 
C. 
Non-teaching Staff   
 
Specialist Staff 
 
1. 
School Social Worker 
 
1.1 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of school social worker 
ranked at the Senior Social Work Assistant level, a candidate must 
have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong 
Polytechnic/Polytechnic University, or equivalent; or 
(ii) a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a recognised 
post-secondary college issued after the date of its 
registration, or equivalent; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; 
 
(d) 
5 years’ recognised post-qualification experience in social 
work; and 
 
(e) 
the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 

=== Page 86 ===
86 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
1.2 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of school social worker 
ranked at the Assistant Social Work Officer level, a candidate must 
have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
a local degree in Social Science majoring in Social 
Work, or equivalent; or 
(ii) a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed a one-year post-graduate course in Social 
Work at an approved institution; or 
(iii) a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed an approved two-year post-graduate course in 
social study/social work; or 
(iv) a local degree, or equivalent, and a Master degree in 
Social Work obtained at an approved institution; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 
the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
2. 
Educational Psychologist I and II 
 
The guides to appointment in respect of the grade of 
Educational Psychologist I and II are at Attachments J(i) and J(ii). 
 
3. 
Speech Therapist 
 
The guides to appointment in respect of the grade of Speech 
Therapist is at Attachment K.  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
4. 
Physiotherapist I 
 
The guide to appointment in respect of the grade of 
Physiotherapist I is at Attachment M. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
5. 
Senior Physiotherapist 
 
Promotion rank for Physiotherapist I. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 87 ===
87 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
6. 
Occupational Therapist I 
 
The guide to appointment in respect of the grade of 
Occupational Therapist I is at Attachment N. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
7. 
Senior Occupational Therapist 
 
Promotion rank for Occupational Therapist I. 
 
 
8. 
Occupational Therapy Assistant 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Occupational 
Therapy Assistant; a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have completed an apprenticeship or a course of study in an 
appropriate trade, or be able to furnish evidence that he has 
had at least 5 years’ experience in an area of work 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary, e.g. 
 
(i) 
Carpentry 
 
General techniques, with knowledge of cabinet-making; 
 
(ii) 
General 
 
Skills or activities which may be applied as treatment 
media, with knowledge of handicrafts; 
 
(iii) Metal Work 
 
General techniques, with knowledge of electrical welding 
and use of bench latches; 
 
(iv) Rattan-work 
 
With knowledge of light and heavy rattan-work, 
including furniture making; 
 
(b) 
preferably have teaching experience in the appropriate field; 
and 
 
(c) 
be able to speak fluent Cantonese and write Chinese. 
 
 
9. 
Registered Nurse 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Registered 
Nurse, a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have the Certificate of Registration (Part I) issued by the 
Nursing Council of Hong Kong or equivalent; 
 

=== Page 88 ===
88 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(b) 
have a valid Practising Certificate issued by the Nursing 
Council of Hong Kong; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
have Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
 (ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 
be fluent in Cantonese. 
 
 
10. 
Registered Nurse (Psychiatric) 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Registered 
Nurse (Psychiatric), a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have the Certificate of Registration (Part II) issued by the 
Nursing Council of Hong Kong or equivalent; 
 
(b) 
have a valid Practising Certificate issued by the Nursing 
Council of Hong Kong; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
have Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
 (ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 
be fluent in Cantonese. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
11. 
Nursing Officer 
 
 The guide to appointment in respect of the grade of Nursing 
Officer is at Attachment O. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
12. 
Enrolled Nurse 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Enrolled Nurse, 
a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have the Certificate of Enrolment (Part I) issued by the 
Nursing Council of Hong Kong or equivalent; and 
 

=== Page 89 ===
89 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(b) 
have a valid Practising Certificate issued by the Nursing 
Council of Hong Kong; 
 
(c) 
have a knowledge of both Chinese language and English 
language at Secondary 4 level; and 
 
(d) 
be fluent in Cantonese. 
 
 
13. 
Warden 
 
13.1 To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Warden ranked at the 
Social Work Officer level, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) (i) 
a local degree in Social Science majoring in Social Work, 
or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed a one-year post-graduate course in Social 
Work at an approved institution; or 
 
(iii) a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed an approved 2-year post-graduate course in 
social study/social work; or 
 
(iv) a local degree, or equivalent, and a Master degree in 
Social Work obtained at an approved institution; 
 
(c) (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate 
of Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent 
[Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) at least 5 years' experience at the ASWO rank; 
 
(e) 3 years’ experience in residential care; and 
 
(f) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
13.2 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Warden ranked at the 
Assistant Social Work Officer level, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
a local degree in Social Science majoring in Social Work, 
or equivalent; or 
 

=== Page 90 ===
90 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(ii) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed a one-year post-graduate course in Social 
Work at an approved institution; or 
 
(iii) a local degree, o r  equivalent, and has successfully 
completed an approved two-year post-graduate course in 
social study/social work; or 
 
 (iv) a local degree, or equivalent, and a Master degree in 
Social Work obtained at an approved institution; 
 
(c) (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate 
of Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent 
[Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 3 years’ experience in residential care; and 
 
(e) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
13.3 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Warden ranked at 
the Chief Social Work Assistant level, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) a recognised social work diploma or certificate in social work; 
 
(c) at least 5 years’ experience at the SSWA rank; 
 
(d) (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate 
of Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent 
[Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(e) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
13.4 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Warden ranked at 
the Senior Social Work Assistant level, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) (i) 
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong 
Polytechnic/Polytechnic University, or equivalent; or 
 

=== Page 91 ===
91 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(ii) 
a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a recognised 
post-secondary college issued after the date of its 
registration, or equivalent; 
 
(c)  (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; 
 
(d) 5 years’ recognised post-qualification experience in social work; 
and 
 
(e) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
14. 
Assistant Warden 
 
14.1 To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Assistant Warden 
ranked at the Assistant Social Work Officer level, a candidate must 
have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
a local degree in Social Science majoring in Social Work, 
or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed a 1-year post-graduate course in Social Work 
at an approved institution; or 
(iii) a local degree, or equivalent, and has successfully 
completed an approved 2-year post-graduate course in 
social study/social work; or 
(iv) a local degree, or equivalent, and a Master degree in 
Social Work obtained at an approved institution; 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate 
of Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent 
[Note1 & 2]; and 
 
(d) 
the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 

=== Page 92 ===
92 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
14.2 To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Assistant Warden 
ranked at the Senior Social Work Assistant level, a candidate must 
have: 
 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
(b) 
 (i) 
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong
Polytechnic/Polytechnic University, or equivalent; or 
 
(ii) 
a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a recognised 
post-secondary college issued after the date of its 
registration, or equivalent; 
(c) 
 (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; 
(d) 
 5 years’ recognised post-qualification experience in social 
work; and 
(e) 
 the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
14.3 To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Assistant Warden 
ranked at the Social Work Assistant level, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
 
(b) 
(i) 
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong 
polytechnic/polytechnic university; or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a registered post-
secondary college issued after the date of its registration, 
or equivalent; 
(c) 
(i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note1 & 2]; and 
(d) 
the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 

=== Page 93 ===
93 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
15. 
Houseparent-in-charge 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Houseparent-in-
charge, a candidate must have: 
 
(a) 
registered under the Social Workers Registration Ordinance, 
Chapter 505; 
(b) (i)  
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong 
polytechnic/polytechnic university; or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a registered post-
secondary college issued after the date of its 
registration, or equivalent; 
(c) (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent [Note1 
& 2]; and 
(d) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 
 
16. 
Houseparent/Programme Worker 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Houseparent/ 
Programme Worker (ranked at the Social Work Assistant level), a 
candidate must have: 
(a) registered 
under the 
Social 
Workers 
Registration 
Ordinance, Chapter 505; 
(b) (i) 
a Diploma in Social Work awarded by the Hong Kong 
Polytechnic/Polytechnic University; or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
a Certificate in Social Work awarded by the Academic 
Board of the Institute for Social Work Training, Hong 
Kong; or 
(iii) a Diploma in Social Work awarded by a registered post-
secondary college issued after the date of its registration, 
or equivalent; 
(c) (i) 
Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) 
Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language (Syllabus 
B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate 
of Education Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent [Note 
1 & 2]; and 
(d) the ability to speak fluent Cantonese. 
 

=== Page 94 ===
94 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
17. 
Brailling Staff 
 
17.1 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Brailling Staff, a 
candidate must: 
(a) 
 (i) have 5 subjects, including Chinese Language, English 
Language and Mathematics at Level 2 or above in the 
Hong 
Kong 
Diploma 
of 
Secondary 
Education 
Examination (HKDSEE), or equivalent; or 
(ii) have 5 subjects, including Chinese Language, English 
Language 
(Syllabus 
B) 
and 
Mathematics 
at 
Level 2 Note / Grade E or above in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent; and 
(b) 
have completed an appropriate course of training in braille. 
 
Note: For the purpose of appointment of Brailling Staff in aided special 
schools, Grade E in Chinese Language, English Language (Syllabus B) 
and Mathematics in the HKCEE before 2007 are accepted 
administratively as comparable to Level 2 respectively in Chinese 
Language, English Language and Mathematics in the 2007 HKCEE and 
henceforth. 
 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
17.2 
The duties of a Brailling staff for the resource support programme 
for pupils with visual impairment attending ordinary schools and 
special schools other than those for the visually impaired are as 
follows: 
(a) 
Brailling, printing and binding of notes, supplementary 
learning materials and examination papers; 
(b) 
Transcription of the pupils’ assignments, homework, papers 
etc. into normal writing/print; 
(c) 
Embossing ink diagrams into tactile diagrams; 
(d) 
Repair of books; and 
(e) 
Performing such other duties as may be required. 
 
[Note 1]:  A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) 
and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education 
Examination (HKCEE) before 2007 are accepted administratively as 
comparable to “Level 2” in English Language and Chinese Language 
in the 2007 HKCEE and henceforth. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
[Note 2]: The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those 
suitable candidates who do not possess the language qualifications.  
Provided that the school is satisfied with the candidates’ language 
ability for carrying out the required duties, appointment can be offered. 

=== Page 95 ===
95 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
D. 
Non-specialist Staff 
 
1. 
Clerk 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Clerk Class 
II/Assistant Clerical Officer paid out of the Salaries Grant, a candidate 
must have either: 
 
(a) 
Either 5 subjects, including English Language at Level 2 
or above in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination or 4 subjects, including English 
Language, one of which must be at Level 2 or above and 
the others at Level 3 or above or equivalent; or  
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
(b) 
5 subjects, including English Language (Syllabus B) at 
Grade E or above in the Hong Kong Certificate of 
Education Examination or 4 subjects, including English 
Language (Syllabus B), one of which must be at Grade 
E or above and the others at Grade C or above; or 
 
(c) 
a Grade C or above in English Language (Syllabus A) in 
the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination, 
together with either 4 other subjects at Grade E or above 
or 3 other subjects at Grade C or above or equivalent; or 
 
(d) 
5 subjects, including English, at Grade E or above in the 
Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination 
(English) or 4 subjects, including English, one of which 
must be at Grade E or above and the other at Grade C or 
above (awarded before 1974); or 
 
(e) 
a Grade C or above in English in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (Chinese) together 
with either 4 other subjects at Grade E or above or 3 
other subjects at Grade C or above (awarded before 1974); 
or 
 
(f) 
a Hong Kong English School Certificate (awarded 
before 1968) with a pass in English; or 
 
(g) 
a Hong Kong Chinese School Certificate (awarded 
before 1968) with a credit in English. 
 
Note: 
For the purpose of appointment of clerical staff in aided 
schools, Grade C and Grade E in Chinese Language and English 
Language (Syllabus B) in previous HKCEE are accepted 
administratively as comparable to Level 3 and Level 2 respectively in 
Chinese Language and English Language in the HKCEE 2007 and 
after.  
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
 
 

=== Page 96 ===
96 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
2. 
Clerical Assistant 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Clerical 
Assistant paid out of the Salaries Grant, a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have completed Secondary IV (all subjects) in a registered 
school; and 
 
(b) 
be fluent in Cantonese and have a good working 
knowledge of English. 
 
 
3. 
Special Driver 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Special Driver, 
a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have an appropriate valid driving licence to drive a 
registered school bus with 30 or more seats; and 
 
(b) 
have acceptable driving experience, preferably not less 
than 5 years. 
 
 
4. 
Motor Driver 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Motor Driver, a 
candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have an appropriate valid driving licence; and 
 
(b) 
have acceptable driving experience, preferably not less 
than 5 years. 
 
Note:  Starting from the 2021/22 school year, all newly jointed drivers 
in special schools should be ranked at Special Driver.  Serving Motor 
Driver will be accommodated until natural wastage or appointed to 
Special Driver upon meeting the corresponding requirements. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
5. 
Artisan II 
 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Artisan II, a 
candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have knowledge and ability to work as a physiotherapy 
attendant; and 
 
(b) 
be fluent in Cantonese and be able to write Chinese and 
have some knowledge of English. 
 
 
 

=== Page 97 ===
97 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
6. 
Workshop Attendant, Watchman and Cook 
 
For the appointment to the grades of Workshop Attendant, 
Watchman and Cook, no special qualifications are required. 
 
 
7. 
Teacher Assistant 
To be eligible for appointment to the grade of Teacher 
Assistant, a candidate must: 
 
(a) 
have completed Secondary V (all subjects) in a registered 
school; and 
 
(b) 
be fluent in Cantonese. 
 
 
8. 
School Executive Officer 
The guides to appointment in respect of the grade of School 
Executive Officer is at Attachment L. 
(updated on 1 September 2019)

=== Page 98 ===
98 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment A 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Principal I 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience 
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for Principals II or Principal 
Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses 
or 
Senior 
Graduate Masters/Mistresses or Senior Primary 
School Master/Mistress in the primary section of 
aided special schools. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
Candidates 
should 
have 
fulfilled 
all 
requirements for normal promotion to this rank 
and have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by the 
Permanent 
Secretary. 
 
The 
Permanent 
Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to submit justifications for the 
exceptional nature of the proposed promotion/ 
appointment for which the Permanent Secretary 
will have discretion either to approve or reject 
having regard to the special circumstances. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Principal of a special school operating Secondary I-VI 
and with 18 or more equivalent ordinary secondary 
classes. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 45 - Point 49 
 
4. 
Promotion Prospects:  
Nil 
 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a School 
Head appointed by direct appointment to a head post 
in another aided school at the same substantive rank 
of his/her former head post without a break in service 
is allowed to retain the salary pay point he/she received 
in the former post; if there is a break in service, 
he/she should be remunerated at the minimum point of 
the pay scale. 

=== Page 99 ===
99 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment B 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Principal II 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience  
 
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion 
rank 
for 
Principal 
Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses 
or 
Senior 
Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses or Senior Primary School 
Master/Mistress in the primary section of aided 
special schools. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
Candidates 
should 
have 
fulfilled 
all 
requirements for normal promotion to this rank 
and have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by 
the Permanent Secretary.  The Permanent 
Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to submit justifications for the 
exceptional nature of the proposed promotion/ 
appointment for which the Permanent Secretary 
will have discretion either to approve or reject 
having regard to the special circumstances. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Principal of a special school operating secondary 
classes and with 12 to 17 equivalent ordinary 
secondary classes. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 40 - Point 44 
 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Principal I 
 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a School 
Head appointed by direct appointment to a head post 
in another aided school at the same substantive rank 
of his/her former head post without a break in service 
is allowed to retain the salary pay point he/she 
received in the former post; if there is a break in 
service, he/she should be remunerated at the minimum 
point of the pay scale. 
 

=== Page 100 ===
100 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment C 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Principal Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience 
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for  
(i)  Senior Graduate Masters/Mistresses; or 
(ii) Senior Primary School Masters/Mistresses 
in the primary section of aided special 
schools solely for the case of Principal 
Graduate Masters/Mistresses serving as 
heads of special schools with both primary 
and secondary sections.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
Candidates 
should 
have 
fulfilled 
all 
requirements for normal promotion to this 
rank and have successfully completed a course 
of training in special education recognised by 
the Permanent Secretary.  The Permanent 
Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to submit justifications for the 
exceptional nature of the proposed promotion/ 
appointment 
for 
which 
the 
Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to 
approve or reject having regard to the special 
circumstances. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a)  Head of a special school operating secondary 
classes and with 11 or fewer equivalent 
ordinary secondary classes; or 
(b)  Deputy Head of a special school operating 
secondary classes and with 12 or more 
equivalent ordinary secondary classes. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 38 - Point 41 
 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Principal I/II 
With effect from the 2004/05 school year, aspiring 
principals are required to attain the Certification for 

=== Page 101 ===
101 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Principalship in addition to complying with the 
appointment conditions in force at the time before 
they could be considered for appointment to 
principalship.  Candidates should have successfully 
completed a course of training in special education 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
In the case of promotion to Principal II, as the salary 
scale of a Principal Graduate Master/Mistress 
overlaps that of a Principal II (MPS Pt 40 - 44), 
the promotees’ salary scale and incremental date 
will be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
if their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher 
office by more than one point, they will enter 
at the minimum and their new incremental date 
will be determined by the date of their 
promotion; 
 
 
(b) 
if their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher 
office by not more than one point, they will 
enter at the minimum and retain their existing 
incremental date; 
 
(c) 
if their pay before promotion is not less than 
the minimum of the pay scale of the new 
higher office and subject to the maximum point 
of the new scale not being exceeded, they will 
enter the new scale at the point which is next 
above their pay and retain their existing 
incremental date; and 
 
(d) 
if the promotees are already receiving the 
maximum pay of their former office at the date 
of promotion, they will enter the new scale at 
the point next above their pay and their new 
incremental date will be determined by the date 
of promotion. 
 
(e) 
With effect from the 2002/03 school year, 
a 
School 
Head 
appointed 
by 
direct 
appointment to a head post in another aided 
school at the same substantive rank of his/her 
former head post without a break in service 
is allowed to retain the salary pay point 
he/she received in the former post; if there is 
a 
break in 
service, he/she should be 
remunerated at the minimum point of the pay 
scale. 
 
  

=== Page 102 ===
102 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment D 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Senior Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
(i) Promotion - Promotion rank for Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses. 
(ii) Regrading 
- 
A 
Principal 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress with a local first degree plus 
teacher training qualifications (or equivalent) 
is eligible for consideration for regrading in 
his/her serving school as Senior Graduate 
Master/Mistress.  Candidates should have 
successfully completed a course of training in 
special 
education 
recognised 
by 
the 
Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 September 
2021) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
Candidates 
should 
have 
fulfilled 
all 
requirements for normal promotion to this rank 
and have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by the 
Permanent 
Secretary. 
 
The 
Permanent 
Secretary may require the School Management 
Committee to submit justifications for the 
exceptional nature of the proposed appointment 
for which the Permanent Secretary will have 
discretion either to approve or reject having 
regard to the special circumstances. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Assist the principal and vice-principal in guiding 
the work in various functional areas in order to 
take forward education initiatives in the secondary 
section of a special school; 
(b) 
Take the lead in diversified professional duties;  
(c) 
Undertake class teaching up to Secondary 6 level 
in a special school; and 
(d)  Perform other related duties as assigned by the 
school. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 34 - Point 39 

=== Page 103 ===
103 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Principal 
Graduate 
Master/Mistress/Principal 
II / Principal I 
 
Senior Graduate Masters/Mistresses will be eligible 
for consideration for promotion to Principal Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses/Principals II/Principals I after 
they have had at least 3 years of acceptable secondary 
school experience in the post in the secondary 
section of an aided special school with proven ability 
to take charge of an academic subject or to perform 
other 
duties 
of 
special 
responsibility; 
have 
undertaken training course(s) specified by or 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary and have 
successfully completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary.  With effect from the 2004/05 school year, 
aspiring principals are required to attain the 
Certification for Principalship in 
addition 
to 
complying with the appointment conditions in force 
at the time before they could be considered for 
appointment to principalship. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a)  In the case of promotion to Principal Graduate 
Master/Mistress, as the salary scale of a Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress overlaps that of a 
Principal Graduate Master/Mistress (MPS Point 
38 - Point 41), the promotees’ salary scale and 
incremental date will be determined as follows: 
 
(i) if their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher 
office by more than one point, they will enter 
at the minimum and their new incremental 
date will be determined by the date of their 
promotion; 
(ii) if their pay before promotion is less than the 
minimum of the pay scale of the new higher 
office by not more than one point, they will 
enter at the minimum and retain their existing 
incremental date; 
(iii) if their pay before promotion is not less than 
the minimum of the pay scale of the new 
higher office and subject to the maximum 
point of the new scale not being exceeded, 
they will enter the new scale at the point 
which is next above their pay and retain their 
existing incremental date; and 

=== Page 104 ===
104 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(iv) if the promotees are already receiving the 
maximum pay of their former office at the 
date of promotion, they will enter the new 
scale at the point next above their pay and 
their 
new 
incremental 
date 
will 
be 
determined by the date of promotion. 
 
(b) The salary scale and incremental date of a Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress regraded from the rank 
of Principal Assistant Master/Mistress will be 
determined as follows: 
 
(i) If immediately before regrading, his/her pay 
is less than the minimum of the pay scale of 
the new office, he/she will enter at the 
minimum and the incremental date will be 
determined by the date of regrading. 
(ii) If his/her pay is the same or more than the 
minimum of the pay scale and not more than 
the maximum of the pay scale of the new 
office, he/she will continue to receive his/her 
existing pay in the former post.  The new 
incremental date will be determined by the 
date of regrading; 
(iii) If he/she is regraded on his/her incremental 
date, for the purpose of these rules, his/her 
pay before regrading will be taken to be the 
pay he/she would have received on that date 
had he/she not been regraded; and 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or between 
the 1st and the 15th day of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the first 
day of that month.  If the date of regrading 
falls on or between the 16th day and the end 
of the month, the incremental date will be 
taken to be the first day of the following 
month. 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 

=== Page 105 ===
105 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment E 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Graduate Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
New Recruitment 
A degree from a local university, or equivalent 
(the degree means a Bachelor degree); or 
 
Note: Preference will be given to candidates 
with a Post-Graduate Certificate in Education 
or an equivalent qualification acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
Regrading  
A 
Certificate 
Master/Mistress, 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress 
or 
Senior 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress with a local first degree or 
equivalent is eligible for consideration for 
regrading in his/her serving school as Graduate 
Master/Mistress.  (updated on 1 September 2008) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Coordinate 
and 
discharge 
diversified 
professional duties; 
(b) 
Undertake class teaching in the secondary
section of a special school;  
(c) 
Resource teacher for special programmes; and 
(d) 
Perform other related duties as assigned by the 
school. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
(a) MPS Point 17 - Point 33 for those appointed 
before 1.4.2000. 
(b) MPS Point 12 - Point 33 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates 
inclusive). 
(c) MPS Point 17 - Point 33 for those appointed 
between 1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates 
inclusive). 
(d) MPS Point 15 - Point 33 for those appointed on 
or after 1.10.2010. 

=== Page 106 ===
106 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Note: Graduate Masters/Mistresses will not 
be 
allowed to proceed beyond the salary bar specified 
below without acquiring a Post-Graduate Certificate in 
Education or an equivalent qualification acceptable to 
the Permanent Secretary: 
 
(a) 
Bar at MPS Point 27 for those appointed 
between 5.12.1980 and 31.8.1997 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(b) 
Bar at MPS Point 22 for those appointed 
between 1.9.1997 and 31.3.2000 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(c) 
Bar at MPS Point 17 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(d) 
Bar at MPS Point 22 for those appointed 
between 1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(e) 
Bar at MPS Point 20 for those appointed on 
or after 1.10.2010 
With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be 
set at 5 pay points above the prevailing starting salary 
and would be adjusted automatically whenever there 
is a change in the starting salary in the future.  A 
serving untrained GM without a break in service is 
subject to the adjusted salary bar or the highest salary 
bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as GM, whichever is the higher.   
(updated on 1 September 2010) 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Senior Graduate Master/Mistress 
Graduate Masters/Mistresses will be eligible for 
consideration for promotion to Senior Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses provided they have obtained a 
Post-Graduate Certificate in Education, or an 
equivalent qualification acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary, have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary; and have had 5 years of 
acceptable secondary school experience in a graduate 
post in a government or an aided or Direct Subsidy 
Scheme or assisted private secondary school or, since 
1 September 1990, in a caput or bought-place school 
bound by contract, and have clearly shown ability to 
take charge of an academic/cultural/practical subject 
or to perform other duties of special responsibility in 
a secondary school; and have undertaken training 
course(s) specified by or acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary.  
  

=== Page 107 ===
107 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) 
Direct entrants with a Degree but no Post-
Graduate Certificate 
in Education or Teacher’s 
Certificate 
or 
an 
equivalent 
qualification 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary, will enter 
at the minimum of the salary scale; 
(b) 
Direct entrants with a Degree plus an 
appropriate 
Post-Graduate 
Certificate 
in 
Education or Teacher’s Certificate or an 
equivalent qualification acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary, will enter at the third 
point in the salary scale; 
 
(c) 
With effect from 1.9.1995, holders of a non-
local degree with an appropriate Post-Graduate 
Certificate in Education obtained from a local 
university will enter at the third point in the 
salary scale, irrespective of whether the non-
local degree is equivalent to a local degree; 
 
(d) 
Entrants having teaching experience acceptable 
to the Permanent Secretary will be awarded 
increments in the salary scale; 
 
(e) 
Serving Graduate Masters/Mistresses who 
acquire 
an 
appropriate 
Post-Graduate 
Certificate in Education or an equivalent 
qualification acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary after pursuing a full-time or part-time 
course will be awarded 2 additional increments 
if they entered at the first point in accordance 
with paragraph 6(a) or have not been previously 
awarded additional increments on the strength 
of such, provided that the maximum of the 
salary scale is not exceeded; 
 
(f) 
Graduate Masters/Mistresses not possessing an 
appropriate 
Post-Graduate 
Certificate 
in 
Education 
or 
an 
equivalent 
qualification 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary but 
appointed prior to 1 September 1978 will be 
eligible for consideration for promotion to 
Senior Graduate Masters/Mistresses provided 
that they have completed training as specified 
by or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(g) 
With effect from 1 September 2003, an 
untrained teacher regraded from a non-graduate 
rank 
to 
Graduate 
Master/Mistress, 
who 
subsequently 
acquires 
acceptable 
teacher 
training qualification, will: 

=== Page 108 ===
108 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
(i) 
be eligible for the award of 2 additional 
increments 
if, 
other 
than 
through 
possession of recognised experience, 
he/she entered at the minimum point of 
the Graduate Master/Mistress pay scale 
prevailing at the time he/she was 
regraded, provided that the maximum of 
the pay scale is not exceeded; or 
(ii) 
be eligible for the award of 1 additional 
increment 
if, 
other 
than 
through 
possession of recognised experience, 
he/she entered at 1 point above the 
minimum 
point 
of 
the 
Graduate 
Master/Mistress pay scale prevailing at 
the time he/she was regraded, provided 
that the maximum of the pay scale is not 
exceeded; or 
(iii) not be eligible for the award of any 
additional increment if, other than 
through 
possession 
of 
recognised 
experience, he/she entered at 2 or more 
points above the minimum point of the 
Graduate Master/Mistress pay scale 
prevailing at the time he/she was 
regraded. 
(updated on 1 January 2014) 
 
 
(h) 
The salary scale and incremental date of a 
Graduate Master/Mistress regraded from the 
rank of Senior Assistant Master/Mistress, 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress 
or 
Certificated 
Master/Mistress will be determined as follows: 
 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, his/her 
pay is less than the minimum of the pay 
scale of the new office, he/she will enter 
at the minimum, and the new incremental 
date will be determined by the date of 
regrading. 
(ii) 
If his/her pay is the same or more than 
the minimum and not more than the 
maximum of the pay scale of the new 
office, he/she will continue to receive 
his/her existing pay in the former post.  
The new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of regrading; 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 109 ===
109 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(iii) If 
he/she 
is 
regraded 
on 
his/her 
incremental date, for the purpose of these 
rules, his/her pay before regrading will be 
taken to be the pay he/she would have 
received on that date had he/she not been 
regraded; and 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or 
between the 1st and the 15th day of the 
month, the incremental date will be taken 
to be the first day of that month.  If the 
date of regrading falls on or between the 
16th day and the end of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the 
first day of the following month. 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 

=== Page 110 ===
110 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment F(i) 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for Senior Assistant Masters/ 
Mistresses.  (Please refer to 5.  Any Other 
Remarks.) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
N.A. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, 
teachers cannot be directly appointed to fill a 
non-graduate post at the promotion rank, except 
for the redeployment of teachers from one 
school to another under the same school 
sponsoring body.) (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Coordinating pastoral care and extra curricular 
activities and attending to special needs of 
pupils in junior forms in addition to teaching 
duties in the secondary section of a special 
school. 
(b) 
Performing duties of special responsibility in 
the capacity of Deputy Head of a special 
school operating a secondary section. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 34 - Point 36 
 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Nil 
 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
Starting from the 2008/09 school year, Principal  
Assistant Masters/Mistresses with a recognised 
degree plus teacher training (or equivalent) may 
apply 
for 
regrading 
to 
Senior 
Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses in his/her serving school to fill up 
new Senior Graduate Master/Mistress posts created 
under the enhanced graduate teacher ratio.  Candidates 
should have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 September 2021) 

=== Page 111 ===
111 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
(a) 
Upon successful regrading or natural wastage 
of a serving Principal Assistant Master/ 
Mistress, the practice of upgrading a Senior 
Assistant Master/Mistress post to a Principal 
Assistant Master/Mistress post will cease with 
immediate effect.  The respective proportions 
of SAM, AM and CM posts as stipulated in this 
Code of Aid will not be affected by the 
cessation of this practice. 
(b) 
If a serving Principal Assistant Master/Mistress 
does not apply for regrading to Senior 
Graduate Master/Mistress, he/she can continue 
to be accommodated in his/her existing rank of 
Principal Assistant Master/Mistress to hold 
against a Senior Graduate Master/Mistress post 
created under the enhanced graduate teacher 
ratio accordingly. 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 

=== Page 112 ===
112 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment F(ii) 
 
 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Primary Special Schools 
 
Headmaster/Headmistress I 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
 Qualifications and   
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
(i) 
Promotion 
- 
promotion 
rank 
for 
Headmasters/Headmistresses II. 
(ii) 
Regrading - A Principal Assistant 
Master/Mistress# 
serving 
in 
the 
nominating primary special school with 
a recognised local first degree or 
equivalent is eligible for consideration 
for 
regrading 
as 
Headmaster/ 
Headmistress I.  Candidates should have 
successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised 
by the Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 
September 2021) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
(i) 
Candidates should have fulfilled all 
requirements for normal promotion to 
this 
rank 
and 
have 
successfully 
completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary.  The 
School 
Management Committee must submit 
justifications for the exceptional nature 
of the proposed appointment for which 
the Permanent Secretary will have 
discretion either to approve or reject 
having 
regard 
to 
the 
special 
circumstances.  (updated on 1 September 2021) 
(ii) 
Starting from the 2000/01 school year, 
new School Heads should be limited to 
candidates holding a recognised local 
first degree plus teacher training in 
primary education and special education, 
or equivalent qualifications. 
 
 

=== Page 113 ===
113 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Head of a primary special school with 24 or more 
equivalent ordinary primary classes.
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 43 - Point 46 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Nil 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a)  The salary scale and incremental date of a 
Headmaster/Headmistress I regraded from the 
rank of Principal Assistant Master/Mistress will 
be determined as follows: 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, their pay 
is less than the minimum of the pay scale 
of the new office, they will enter at the 
minimum and the new incremental date 
will be determined by the date of 
regrading; 
(ii) 
If their pay is the same or more than the 
minimum and not more than the maximum 
of the pay scale of the new office, they 
will receive the salary point which is 
equivalent to their existing substantive 
salary.  The new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of regrading; 
(iii) If they are regraded on their incremental 
date, for the purpose of these rules, their 
pay before regrading will be taken to be 
the pay they would have received on that 
date had they not been regraded; and 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or between 
the 1st and the 15th day of the month, the 
incremental date will be taken to be the 
first day of that month.  If the resultant 
date falls on or between the 16th day and 
the end of the month, the incremental date 
will be taken to be the first day of the 
following month. 
 
(b)  With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a 
School Head appointed by direct appointment to 
a head post in another aided school at the same 
substantive rank of his/her former head post 
without a break in service is allowed to retain 
the salary pay point he/she received in the 
former post; if there is a break in service, he/she 
should be remunerated at the minimum point of 
the pay scale for the rank. 
 
 
#The PAM rank in primary special school will be phased out through natural wastage. 
(updated on 1 September 2008) 

=== Page 114 ===
114 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment G(i) 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for Assistant Masters/Mistresses. 
 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, no 
Assistant Masters/Mistresses should be promoted 
to Senior Assistant Master/Mistress, except those 
who have been selected for acting up the post 
through a promotion exercise before the 2019/20 
school 
year. 
 
Serving 
Senior 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress will be accommodated until 
natural wastage or regraded to the graduate grade.)  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
N.A. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, 
teachers cannot be directly appointed to fill a non-
graduate post at the promotion rank, except for the 
redeployment of teachers from one school to 
another under the same school sponsoring body.)  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Class teaching up to Secondary VI in the secondary 
section of a special school or performing duties of 
special responsibility. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 30 - Point 33 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Nil (updated on 1 September 2008) 
5. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a)  Starting from the 2008/09 school year, Principal 
Assistant Masters/Mistresses with a recognised 
degree plus teacher training (or equivalent) may 
apply 
for 
regrading 
to 
Senior Graduate 
Masters/Mistresses in his/her serving school to fill 

=== Page 115 ===
115 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
up new Senior Graduate Master/Mistress posts 
created under the enhanced graduate teacher ratio.  
Candidates should have successfully completed a 
course of training in special education recognised 
by the Permanent Secretary.  Upon successful 
regrading or natural wastage of a serving Principal 
Assistant 
master/Mistress, 
the 
practice 
of 
upgrading a Senior Assistant Master/Mistress post 
to a Principal Assistant Master/Mistress post will 
cease with immediate effect.  
   
(updated on 1 September 2021) 

=== Page 116 ===
116 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment G(ii) 
 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Primary Special Schools 
 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
(i) 
Promotion - promotion rank for Senior 
Primary School Master/Mistress or 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress.  
(updated on 1 September 2008) 
(ii) 
Regrading - A Senior Assistant Master/ 
Mistress# serving in the nominating 
primary special school with a recognised 
local first degree 
or equivalent is 
eligible for consideration for regrading 
as 
Headmaster/Headmistress 
II. 
Candidates should have successfully 
completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary. 
(updated 
on 
1 
September 2021) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry  
(i) 
Candidates should have fulfilled all 
requirements for normal promotion to 
this 
rank 
and 
have 
successfully 
completed a course of training in special 
education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary.  The School Management 
Committee must submit justifications for 
the exceptional nature of the proposed 
appointment for which the Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to 
approve or reject having regard to the 
special circumstances.  (updated on 1 
September 2021) 
(ii) 
Starting from the 2000/01 school year, 
new School Heads should be limited to 
candidates holding a recognised local 
first degree plus teacher training in 
primary education and special education, 
or equivalent qualifications.

=== Page 117 ===
117 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Head of a primary special school with 12 to 23 
equivalent ordinary primary classes. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 40 - Point 43 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Headmaster/Headmistress I 
A Headmaster/Headmistress II will be eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion 
to 
Headmaster/ 
Headmistress I after he/she has served successfully as 
follows in a primary special school for at least 3 
years:  
 
Either 
 
(i) 
as a Headmaster/Headmistress II; 
 
or 
(ii) 
as a Senior Assistant Master/Mistress and then 
as a Headmaster/Headmistress II. 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) 
In 
the 
case 
of 
promotion 
to 
Headmaster/Headmistress I, as the salary scale 
of a Headmaster/Headmistress II overlaps that 
of a Headmaster/Headmistress I (MPS Pt 43 - 
46), 
the 
promotees’ 
salary 
scale 
and 
incremental date will be determined as follows: 
 
(i) 
if their pay before promotion is less than 
the minimum of the pay scale of the 
new higher office by more than 1 point, 
they will enter at the minimum and their 
new incremental date will be determined 
by the date of their promotion; 
(ii) 
if their pay before promotion is less 
than the minimum of the pay scale of 
the new higher office by not more than 
one point, they will enter at the 
minimum and retain their existing 
incremental date; and 
(iii) if the promotees are already receiving the 
maximum pay of their former office at the 
date of promotion, they will enter the 
new scale at the point next above their 
pay and their new incremental date will 
be determined by the date of promotion. 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 

=== Page 118 ===
118 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(b) 
The salary scale and incremental date of 
Headmaster/Headmistress II regraded from the 
rank of Senior Assistant Master/Mistress will 
be determined as follows: 
(i) 
If immediately before regrading, their 
pay is less than the minimum of the pay 
scale of the new office, they will enter 
at 
the 
minimum 
and 
the 
new 
incremental date will be determined by 
the date of regrading; 
(ii) 
If their pay is the same or more than the 
minimum and not more than the 
maximum of the pay scale of the new 
office, they will receive the salary point 
which is equivalent to their existing 
substantive 
salary. 
 
The 
new 
incremental date will be determined by 
the date of regrading; 
(iii) 
If 
they 
are 
regraded 
on 
their 
incremental date, for the purpose of 
these rules, their pay before regrading 
will be taken to be the pay they would 
have received on that date had they 
not been regraded; and 
(iv) 
If the date of regrading falls on or 
between the 1st and the 15th day of 
the month, the incremental date will be 
taken to be the first day of that month.  
If the resultant date falls on or between 
the 16th day and the end of the month, 
the incremental date will be taken to be 
the first day of the following month. 
(c) 
With effect from the 2002/03 school year, a 
School Head appointed by direct appointment 
to a head post in another aided school at the 
same substantive rank of his/her former head 
post without a break in service is allowed to 
retain the salary pay point he/she received in 
the former post; if there is a break in service, 
he/she should be remunerated at the 
minimum point of the pay scale. 
 
 
 
# The SAM rank in primary special schools will be phased out through natural wastage. 
(updated on 1 September 2011) 
 
 

=== Page 119 ===
119 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment H(i) 
 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Assistant Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for Certificated Masters/Mistresses. 
 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, no 
Assistant Masters/Mistresses should be promoted to 
Senior Assistant Master/Mistress, except those who 
have been selected for acting up the post through a 
promotion exercise before the 2019/20 school year.  
Serving Senior Assistant Master/Mistress will be 
accommodated until natural wastage or regraded to 
the graduate grade.)  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
 
N.A. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, 
teachers cannot be directly appointed to fill a non-
graduate post at the promotion rank, except for the 
redeployment of teachers from one school to another 
under the same school sponsoring body.)  
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Senior Teacher in the primary section of a special 
school with duties in addition to class teaching; or 
(b) 
Class teaching up to Secondary IV level in the 
secondary section of a special school. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 25 - Point 29 
4. 
Period of probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 120 ===
120 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
(a) Senior Assistant Master/Mistress 
Assistant Masters/Mistresses will be eligible for 
consideration for promotion to Senior Assistant 
Masters/Mistresses after they have demonstrated 
their ability to undertake more responsible duties 
by serving satisfactorily for: 
(i) 3 years regularly teaching an academic subject 
at Secondary V level in a special school;  
or 
(ii) 
2 
years 
performing 
duties 
of 
special 
responsibility in the secondary section of a 
special school; 
 
and have undertaken training course(s) specified 
by or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary and 
have successfully completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary. (updated on 1 September 2021). 
 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, the 
promotion mechanism for the non-graduate grade 
would cease to operate, except those who have been 
selected for acting up a higher rank through a 
promotion exercise before the 2019/20 school year.) 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
(b)  Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
An Assistant Master/Mistress with a local first degree 
or equivalent will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion to Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
after he/she has served successfully as an Assistant 
Master/Mistress in a primary special school or the 
primary section of a special school for at least 2 years, 
undertaken training course(s) specified by or 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary, and have 
successfully completed a course of training in special 
education recognised by the Permanent Secretary.  
(updated on 1 September 2021) 

=== Page 121 ===
121 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment H(ii) 
 
 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Primary Special Schools and 
Special Schools with Primary Section 
 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion/Regrading 
(i) Promotion - promotion rank for Assistant 
Primary School Masters/Mistresses. 
(ii) Regrading - An Assistant Master/Mistress 
with a recognised local first degree or 
equivalent is eligible for consideration for 
regrading as Primary School Master/ 
Mistress. 
 
Candidates 
should 
have 
successfully completed a course of training 
in special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 1 September 
2021) 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
Candidates should possess a local first degree 
plus teacher training in primary education, or 
equivalent qualifications, and have successfully 
completed a course of training in special 
education 
recognised 
by 
the 
Permanent 
Secretary.  They should also meet the teaching 
experience requirement and complete training 
course(s) specified by or acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary set for normal promotion 
to this rank.  The School Management 
Committee must submit justifications for the 
exceptional nature of the proposed appointment 
for which the Permanent Secretary will have 
discretion either to approve or reject having 
regard to the special circumstances. 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Assist the principal and vice-principal in guiding 
the work in various functional areas in order to 
take forward education initiatives in the primary 
section of a special school; 
(b) 
Take the lead in diversified professional duties; 
(c) 
Undertake class teaching in the primary section 
of special school; and 
(d)  Perform other related duties as assigned by the 
school. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
 
 

=== Page 122 ===
122 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 30 - Point 33 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Senior Primary School Master / Mistress Headmaster 
/ Headmistress II 
(a) 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress 
A Primary School Master/Mistress will be 
eligible for consideration for promotion to 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress after 
he/she has served successfully as a Primary 
School Master/Mistress in a primary special 
school or the primary section of a special school 
for at least 2 years, undertaken training course(s) 
specified by or acceptable to the Permanent 
Secretary and have successfully completed a 
course 
of 
training 
in 
special 
education 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
 
(b) 
Headmaster/Headmistress II 
A Primary School Master/Mistress will be 
eligible for consideration for promotion to 
Headmaster/Headmistress II after he/she has 
successfully completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary and has served successfully as 
follows in a primary special school or the 
primary section of a special school for at least 
5 years:  
Either 
(i) 
as a Primary School Master/Mistress; or 
(ii) 
as an Assistant Master/Mistress and then 
as a Primary School Master/ Mistress 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
With effect from the 2004/05 school year, 
aspiring principals are required to attain the 
Certification for Principalship in addition to 
complying with the appointment conditions in 
force at the time before they could be 
considered for appointment to principalship. 
 
 
 

=== Page 123 ===
123 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
Primary School Masters/Mistresses regraded from 
the rank of Assistant Master/Mistress will enter at the 
minimum of the Primary School Master/Mistress pay 
scale with their new incremental date determined by 
the date of their regrading.  If the date of regrading 
falls on or between the 1st and the 15th day of the 
month, the incremental date will be taken to be the 
first day of that month.  If the date of regrading falls 
on or between the 16th day and the end of the month, 
the incremental date will be taken to be the first day 
of the following month. 

=== Page 124 ===
124 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment H(iii) 
 
Guide to Appointment  
Aided Primary Special Schools and 
Special Schools with Primary Section 
 
Senior Primary School Master/Mistress  
 
Head and Deputy Head 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience for 
Appointment: 
 
(a) 
Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for 
(i) Primary School Masters/Mistresses; and 
(ii) Assistant Master/Mistress with a local first 
degree or equivalent. 
(b) 
Exceptionally - Direct Entry 
(i) 
Candidates should possess a local first 
degree plus teacher training in primary 
education, or equivalent qualifications, and 
have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by 
the Permanent Secretary.  They should also 
meet the teaching experience requirement 
and complete training course(s) specified 
by 
or 
acceptable 
to 
the 
Permanent 
Secretary set for normal promotion to this 
rank.  The School Management Committee 
must 
submit 
justifications 
for 
the 
exceptional 
nature 
of 
the 
proposed 
appointment for which the Permanent 
Secretary will have discretion either to 
approve or reject having regard to the 
special circumstances. 
(ii) Starting from the 2000/01 school year, new 
school heads and deputy heads should be 
limited to candidates holding a local first 
degree plus teacher training in primary 
education 
and 
special 
education, 
or 
equivalent qualifications. 
 

=== Page 125 ===
125 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
2. 
 
 
Duties: 
 
 
(a) Head of a primary special school with 11 equivalent 
ordinary primary classes or less; or  
(b) Deputy head of a primary special school with 12 
equivalent ordinary primary classes or more, or 
deputy head of the primary section of a special 
school with both primary and secondary sections, in 
addition to class teaching. 
(updated on 1 September 2020) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 34 - Point 39 (updated on 1 September 2022) 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
(a) Headmaster/Headmistress II in Primary Special 
School; or  
(b) Principal Graduate Master/Mistress serving as head 
of the special school with both primary and 
secondary sections; or  
Principal II of a special school with both primary and 
secondary sections; or 
Principal I of a special school with both primary and 
secondary sections.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
 
A Senior Primary School Master/Mistress will be 
eligible for 
consideration 
for promotion 
to 
Headmaster/ Headmistress II after he/she has 
successfully completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary and served successfully as follows in a 
primary special school or the primary section of a 
special school for at least 5 years:  
Either 
(i) as a Senior Primary School Master/Mistress; or 
(ii) as 
an 
Assistant 
Master/Mistress/Primary 
School Master/Mistress and then as a Senior 
Primary School Master/Mistress. 
(updated on 1 September 2021) 
A Senior Primary School Master/Mistress will be 
eligible for consideration for promotion to Principal 
Graduate Masters/Mistresses (Head)/ Principals II / 
Principals I after they have had at least 3 years of 
acceptable school experience in the post in an aided 
special school with proven ability to take charge of 
an academic subject or to perform other duties of 
special responsibility; have undertaken training 
course(s) specified by or acceptable to the 
Permanent 
Secretary 
and 
have 
successfully 
completed a course of training in special education 
recognised by the Permanent Secretary.  
(updated on 1 September 2022) 

=== Page 126 ===
126 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
6. Any other remarks: 
With effect from the 2004/05 school year, aspiring 
principals are required to attain the Certification for 
Principalship, in addition to complying with the 
appointment conditions in force at the time, before they 
could be considered for appointment to principalship.  
 
 
 

=== Page 127 ===
127 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment I(i) 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Certificated Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications 
and Experience 
for Appointment: 
(a) 
Certificate in Primary/Secondary Education 
from the Hong Kong Institute of Education/ 
Teacher’s Certificate from a College of 
Education in Hong Kong obtained after a three-
year full-time training course or a two-year full-
time training course (acquired in or after 1982), 
or an equivalent qualification; or 
(b) 
Technical Teacher’s Certificate obtained after a 
three-year full-time technical teacher training 
course, or an equivalent qualification; or 
(c) 
Higher Diploma/Certificate*, or equivalent 
qualification, plus 1 year’s relevant post-
qualification working experience; or 
(d) 
Diploma* or equivalent qualification, plus either: 
(i) 
1 
year’s 
relevant 
post-qualification 
working experience and 1 year of full-
time (or 2 years of part-time) technical 
teacher training; or 
(ii) 
2 
years’ 
relevant 
post-qualification 
working experience; or 
(e) 
Secretarial or commercial certificate*, or 
equivalent qualification, plus either: 
(i) 
1 
year’s 
relevant 
post-qualification 
working experience and 1 year of full-
time (or 2 years of part-time) technical 
teacher training; or 
(ii) 
2 
years’ 
relevant 
post-qualification 
working experience. 
*   Obtained from a local university or a technical 
institute 
(f) 
(i) 
An Assessment Certificate (Primary level) 
from the Education Bureau obtained after 
having passed Part I and Part II of the 
Non-graduate 
Teacher 
Qualifications 
Assessment (NGTQA); or 

=== Page 128 ===
128 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
 (ii) An Assessment Certificate (Primary level) 
from the Education Bureau obtained after 
having passed Part I, Part II and Part III 
of 
the 
Non-graduate 
Teacher 
Qualifications Assessment (NGTQA) 
(g) 
A qualification other than (a) to (f) above, 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
Notes: 
(i) 
Starting from the 2019/20 school year, all newly-
joined teachers should possess a local bachelor’s 
degree (or equivalent).  No non-degree holders 
could be appointed as new teachers. 
(ii) 
Serving Certificated Master/Mistress will be 
accommodated until natural wastage or regraded 
to the graduate grade. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
Duties: 
(a) 
Class teacher in the primary classes or lower 
secondary classes of a special school; or 
(b) 
Resource teacher for special programmes; and 
(c) 
Where necessary, other related duties as 
considered appropriate. 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
Basic scale 
(i) 
MPS Point 14 - Point 24 for those appointed 
before 1.4.2000. 
(ii) 
MPS Point 12 - Point 24 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates 
inclusive). 
(iii) MPS Point 14 - Point 24 for those appointed 
on or after 1.8.2007. 
Notes: Untrained teachers will not be allowed to 
proceed beyond the salary bar specified below: 
(a) Bar at MPS Point 19 for those appointed 
between 1.1.1991 and 31.3.2000 (both 
dates inclusive) 
(b) Bar at MPS Point 17 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both 
dates inclusive. 
(c) Bar at MPS Point 19 for those appointed 
on or after 1.8.2007. 
 
 

=== Page 129 ===
129 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar would be 
set at 5 pay points above the prevailing starting salary 
and would be adjusted automatically whenever there 
is a change in the starting salary in the future.  A 
serving untrained CM without a break in service is 
subject to the adjusted salary bar or the highest salary 
bar point he/she has ever experienced in the 
appointment as CM, whichever is the higher. 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Assistant Master/Mistress 
Certificated 
Masters/Mistresses 
possessing 
a 
Teacher’s Certificate or an equivalent qualification 
and who have successfully completed a course of 
training in special education recognised by the 
Permanent Secretary will be eligible for consideration 
for promotion to Assistant Masters/Mistresses if they 
have: 
(i) 
in a secondary special school or the secondary 
section of a special school: 
(i) 
5 years satisfactory and acceptable 
experience as a teacher or headmaster/ 
headmistress in a government or aided 
secondary school or since 1 January 1966 
in an assisted private secondary school; or 
since 1 September 1990, in a caput or 
bought-place school bound by contract; or 
(ii) 
5 years satisfactory and acceptable 
experience as a teacher or headmaster/ 
headmistress in a government or aided 
secondary or primary school, or since 1 
January 1966, in an assisted private 
secondary school, or since 1 September 
1990, in a caput or bought-place school 
bound by contract, of which the last 2 
years must be in the secondary section of 
the nominating special school; and 
(ii) 
in a primary special school or the primary 
section of a special school: 
(i) 
5 
years 
satisfactory 
and 
acceptable 
experience as a teacher in a government 
or an aided primary school with a 
Teacher’s Certificate; or 
 
 

=== Page 130 ===
130 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(ii) 
5 
years 
satisfactory 
and 
acceptable 
experience as a teacher in a government 
or an aided primary school with the 
status of qualified teacher awarded after 
successful 
completion 
of 
In-service 
Course of Training for Teachers; or 
(iii) 5 
years 
satisfactory 
and 
acceptable 
experience as a teacher in a government 
or an aided primary school with the 
status of qualified teacher awarded after 
passing 
the 
Non-Graduate 
Teachers 
Qualifications Assessment and successful 
completion of In-service Course of 
Training for Teachers; or a period of 
supervised teaching for at least 1 year; 
and have undertaken training course(s) specified by 
or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
(Note: Starting from the 2019/20 school year, the 
promotion mechanism for the non-graduate grade 
would cease to operate, except those who have been 
selected for acting up a higher rank through a 
promotion exercise before the 2019/20 school year.) 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) 
Direct entrants who have completed 2 years 
of 
continuous 
full-time 
teacher 
training 
(acquired prior to 1982) at a College of 
Education/Hong Kong Technical Teachers’ 
College will enter the scale at the sub-point. 
(b) 
Direct entrants with the qualifications at 1(d)(i) 
will enter the scale at the second point. 
(c) 
Direct entrants with acceptable qualifications 
under 1(g) will be appointed to a point, or sub-
point, of the scale considered appropriate by 
the Permanent Secretary. 
(d) 
Direct entrants having approved teaching/ 
relevant practical experience in excess of that 
required for appointment may be awarded 
increments in the basic scale at the discretion 
of the Permanent Secretary. 
(e) 
Serving Certificated Masters/Mistresses who 
are appointed under 1(c), 1(d)(ii) or 1(e)(ii) and 
who have successfully undertaken a two-year 
part-time technical teacher training course at the 
Hong Kong Institute of Education or a 
Technical Institute may be awarded an 
additional increment if they are not already at 
the top of the basic scale. 
 
 

=== Page 131 ===
131 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(f) 
Serving Certificated Masters/Mistresses who 
are appointed under 1(g) at a sub-point of the 
scale without teacher training and who have 
successfully undertaken an appropriate In-
service Course of Teacher Training or Post-
Graduate Certificate in Education may be 
awarded an additional increment if they are not 
already at the top of the basic scale. 
(g) 
Certificated Masters/Mistresses not possessing 
teacher training or an equivalent qualification 
but appointed prior to 1 January 1991 will be 
eligible for consideration for promotion to 
Assistant Masters/Mistresses provided that they 
have undertaken training course(s) specified by 
or acceptable to the Permanent Secretary. 
(h) 
Direct entrants with non-standard qualifications 
under 1(f) will enter at MPS Point 12 if 
appointed before 1.4.2000 or after 31.7.2007. 
For those appointed between 1.4.2000 and 
31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive), the MPS 
Point is 10. 
(i) 
Serving Certificated Master/Mistresses who are 
appointed under 1(f)(i) shall be allowed to 
proceed beyond the salary bar after having 
successfully completed the In-service Course of 
Teacher Training.  No additional increment will 
be awarded for the successful completion of 
the In-service Course of Teacher Training.  
For those appointed between 1.4.2000 and 
31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive), the salary bar 
is at MPS Point 17.  For those appointed 
before 1.4.2000 or after 31.7.2007, the salary 
bar is at MPS Point 19. 
(j) 
Serving Certificated Masters/Mistresses who 
are appointed under 1(f)(ii) shall be allowed to 
proceed beyond the salary bar and will be 
awarded an additional in 1 increment after 
having successfully completed a period of 
supervised teaching for at least 1 year in a 
primary school or a primary special school. 
No additional increment will be awarded to 
such teachers for subsequent completion of an 
In-service Course of Teacher Training.  For 
those 
appointed 
between 
1.4.2000 
and 
31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive), the salary bar 
is at MPS Point 17.  For those appointed 
before 1.4.2000 or after 31.7.2008, the salary 
bar is at MPS Point 19. 
 
 

=== Page 132 ===
132 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(k) With effect from 1.9.2006, untrained teachers 
with specified non-standard qualifications (such 
as Approved Post-secondary Secondary College 
diplomas) will not be accepted for new 
appointment or reappointment as CM at aided 
primary schools after a break in service.  
Untrained teachers with specified non-standard 
qualifications may be accepted for appointment 
as CM at aided secondary schools only for 
subjects in demand (e.g. technical/practical/ 
vocational subjects). 
Priority should still be 
given to teachers with standard qualifications. 
(updated on 1 September 2010) 

=== Page 133 ===
133 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment I(ii) 
 
 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Primary Special Schools and 
Special Schools with Primary Section 
 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
(a) 
New Recruitment 
Candidates should possess a recognised local 
first degree plus teacher training in primary 
education or equivalent qualifications. 
(b) 
Regrading   
A Certificated Master/Mistress serving in 
the nominating primary special school or the 
primary section of a special school with a 
recognised local first degree or equivalent is 
eligible for consideration for regrading as 
Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress. 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Mainly deployed to perform the following duties: 
(a) Coordinate 
and 
discharge 
diversified 
professional duties; 
(b) Undertake class teaching; and 
(c) Perform other related duties as assigned by the 
school. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
(a)  MPS Point 17 - Point 29 for those appointed 
before1.4.2000 
(b) MPS Point 12 - Point 29 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(c) MPS Point 17 - Point 29 for those appointed 
between 1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(d) MPS Point 15 - Point 29 for those appointed on 
or after 1.10.2010 
 
 

=== Page 134 ===
134 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
Note:  Untrained teachers will not be allowed to 
proceed beyond a salary bar specified 
below: 
(a) Bar at MPS Point 27 for those 
appointed before 1.4.2000. 
(b) Bar at MPS Point 22 for those 
appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 
30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
(c) Bar at MPS Point 20 for those 
appointed on or after 1.10.2010 
With effect from 1.8.2007, the salary bar 
would be set at 5 pay points above the 
prevailing starting salary and would be 
adjusted automatically whenever there is a 
change in the starting salary in the future.  
A serving untrained APSM without a 
break in service is subject to the adjusted 
salary bar or the highest salary bar point 
he/she has ever experienced 
in 
the 
appointment as APSM, whichever is the 
higher. 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for new entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Primary School Master/Mistress 
Assistant Primary School Masters/Mistresses 
possessing a Post-graduate Diploma/Certificate in 
Education, or a Teacher’s Certificate from a local 
College of Education/the Hong Kong Institute of 
Education, 
or 
equivalent 
and 
who 
have 
successfully completed a course of training in 
special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion to Primary School Masters/Mistresses 
after they have served successfully as follows in a 
government or an aided or Direct Subsidy Scheme 
primary school for at least 5 years and undertaken 
training course(s) specified by or acceptable to the 
Permanent Secretary: 
 
 
Either 
(i) 
as 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress;  
or 
(ii) 
as a Certificated Master/Mistress and then as 
an 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 

=== Page 135 ===
135 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) 
Candidates 
without 
a 
Post-graduate 
 
Diploma/Certificate in Education, or a 
Teacher’s Certificate from a local College 
of Education/the Hong Kong Institute of 
Education, or equivalent will enter at the 
minimum of the pay scale on appointment. 
(b) 
Candidates who also possess an appropriate 
Post-graduate 
Diploma/Certificate 
in 
Education, or a Teacher’s Certificate from a 
local College of Education/the Hong Kong 
Institute of Education, or equivalent will 
enter at the third point in the pay scale on 
appointment. 
(c) 
Starting from 21.2.2002, the arrangement 
for the salary bar of serving untrained 
teachers upon their regrading from a non-
graduate rank to the rank of Assistant 
Primary School Master/Mistress, is as 
follows: 
(i) If the pay point of the teachers 
concerned on the appointment to the 
rank of Assistant Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress is below the prevailing 
salary bar of their new post, they can 
progress along the respective pay scale 
to the new salary bar point.  Subject to 
the acquisition of acceptable teacher 
training qualification, they can proceed 
beyond the appropriate salary bar point 
to the maximum of the respective pay 
scale; and 
(ii) If the pay point of the teachers 
concerned on appointment to the rank of 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress is at or above the 
prevailing salary bar of their new post 
(due to, for example, the retention of 
their existing pay in the former non-
graduate post under the special pay on 
appointment arrangements), their salary 
will be frozen at that pay point.  
Progression beyond the frozen pay 
point is subject to their acquisition of 
acceptable teacher training qualification, 
provided that the maximum of the 
respective pay scale is not exceeded. 
 
 

=== Page 136 ===
136 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(d) 
Serving Assistant Primary School Masters/ 
Mistresses who acquire a Post-graduate 
Diploma/Certificate in Education, or a 
Teacher’s Certificate from a local College 
of Education/the Hong Kong Institute of 
Education, or equivalent after pursuing a 
full-time or part-time course will be 
awarded 2 additional increments if they 
entered at the first point in accordance with 
paragraph 6(a) or have not been previously 
awarded additional increments on the 
strength 
of 
such, 
provided 
that 
the 
maximum of the salary scale is not 
exceeded.  However, with effect from 1 
September 
2003, 
untrained 
teachers 
regraded from Certificated Master/Mistress 
to 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress, who subsequently acquire 
acceptable teacher training qualification, 
will: 
(i) 
be eligible for the award of 2 
additional increments if, other than 
through possession of 
recognised 
experience, 
they 
entered 
at 
the 
minimum point of the Assistant 
Primary School Master/Mistress pay 
scale prevailing at the time they were 
regraded, provided that the maximum 
of the pay scale is not exceeded; or 
(ii) be eligible for the award of 1 
additional 
increment, 
other 
than 
through possession of 
recognised 
experience, if they entered at 1 point 
above the minimum point of the 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress pay scale prevailing 
at the time they were regraded, 
provided that the maximum of the pay 
scale is not exceeded; or 
(iii) not be eligible for the award of any 
additional increment if, other than 
through possession of 
recognised 
experience, they entered at 2 or more 
points above the minimum point of 
the 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress pay scale prevailing at 
the time they were regraded. 
(updated on 1 January 2014) 
 
 
 

=== Page 137 ===
137 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(e) 
The salary scale and incremental date of 
Assistant 
Primary 
School 
Masters/Mistresses regraded from the rank 
of Certificated Master/Mistress will be 
determined as follows: 
(i) 
If 
immediately 
before 
regrading, 
their pay is less than the minimum of 
the pay scale of the new office, they 
will enter at the minimum and the new 
incremental date will be determined by 
the date of regrading; 
(ii) 
If their pay is the same or more than 
the minimum and not more than the 
maximum of the pay scale of the new 
office, they will continue to receive 
their existing pay in the former post.  
The new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of regrading; 
(iii) If 
they 
are 
regraded 
on 
their 
incremental date, for the purpose of 
these rules, their pay before regrading 
will be taken to be the pay they would 
have received on that date had they 
not been regraded; and 
(iv) If the date of regrading falls on or 
between the 1st and the 15th day of 
the month, the incremental date will 
be taken to be the first day of that 
month.  If the date of regrading falls 
on or between the 16th day and the end 
of the month, the incremental date 
will be taken to be the first day of the 
following month.  
(updated on 1 
September 2010) 

=== Page 138 ===
138 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment J(i) 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Educational Psychologist I 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
Candidates should have: 
(i) 
a first degree in Psychology from a local 
university or equivalent; 
(ii) 
a Master’s or Doctoral degree in Educational 
Psychology (Professional Practice) from a 
local university or equivalent; 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
(iii) a Post Graduate Certificate in Education from a 
local university or equivalent; 
(iv) obtained full membership of the Division of 
Educational Psychology of the Hong Kong 
Psychological Society or an equivalent status 
in an internationally recognised professional 
organization 
of 
Educational 
Psychology 
(applicable to those appointed on or after 1 
September 2012); 
(v) 
a minimum of 6 years’ relevant post-degree 
experience of which at least 3 years should be 
as an Educational Psychologist; 
(vi) good command of Cantonese and written 
Chinese; and 
(vii) good command of spoken and written English. 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Educational Psychologists provide comprehensive 
services to schools at the following target levels: 
(a) Student support level 
 
To provide assessment, counseling and 
guidance services for students; 
 
To provide intervention or behavioural 
guidance programmes for students directly 
and/or 
in 
collaboration 
with school 
personnel such as teachers, school social 
workers and/or speech therapists, etc.; and 
 
To promote home-school co-operation in 
child management and deliver parent 
training programmes in collaboration with 
school personnel. 

=== Page 139 ===
139 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
(b) Teacher support level 
 
To 
support 
teachers 
in 
the 
early 
identification of at risk students as well 
as the planning and implementation of 
appropriate intervention measures for them; 
 
To advise teachers on measures to enhance 
learning and teaching effectiveness as well 
as behaviour support, 
including 
the 
formulation of individual education plans 
for the students; 
 
To advise teachers and school social 
workers in planning and implementing 
school-based 
psycho-educational 
programmes for students; 
 
To support teachers in school-based action 
research related to the domains of student 
support as well as learning and teaching; 
and 
 
To conduct staff development training to 
equip school personnel with the necessary 
professional knowledge and skills to meet 
the personal, social and special educational 
needs of students. 
(c) School system level 
 
To support schools in developing whole-
school policies to cater for student 
diversity; 
 
To 
support 
schools 
in developing 
effective mechanism to meet the diverse 
educational needs of their students; 
 
To support schools in developing policy 
and mechanism on crisis management and 
to render crisis management service to 
schools whenever necessary. 
Educational Psychologist I also leads the planning, 
execution, management and evaluation of the 
Educational Psychology Service as well as provides 
support to Educational Psychologist II, where 
appropriate. 
 
3. 
Salary Scale:  
MPS Point 34 - Point 44 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Nil 
 

=== Page 140 ===
140 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) 
Holders of degrees other than those from a local 
university or equivalent may apply, but should 
attach copies of transcripts of studies to their 
applications. 
(b) The candidate must be eligible for graduate 
membership of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society or the British Psychological Society or 
equivalent.  The Master’s or Doctoral Degree 
in Educational Psychology (Professional Practice) 
obtained must be one which can prepare the 
candidate for independent professional work as 
an educational psychologist. 
 (c) The requirement for a candidate to obtain full 
membership of the Division of Educational 
Psychology of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society 
or 
an 
equivalent 
status 
in 
an 
internationally 
recognised 
professional 
organization of Educational Psychology in Para 
1(d) is also applicable to the existing educational 
psychologist incumbents who take up a new 
appointment in another school as Educational 
Psychologist I on or after 1 September 2012. 
 (updated on 1 September 2018) 
 
 
 

=== Page 141 ===
141 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment J(ii) 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Educational Psychologist II 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and  
Experience   
for Appointment: 
Candidates should have: 
(a) 
a first degree in Psychology from a local 
university or equivalent; 
(b) 
a Master’s or Doctoral degree in Educational 
Psychology (Professional Practice) from a 
local university or equivalent; 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 
(c) 
obtained full membership of the Division of 
Educational Psychology of the Hong Kong 
Psychological Society or an equivalent status 
in an internationally recognised professional 
organization of Educational Psychology or 
been eligible for such membership.  Candidate 
so eligible shall obtain such full membership 
within 9 months after appointment
＊.  (This 
requirement is applicable to those appointed as 
Educational Psychologist II on or after 1 
September 2012 and the existing educational 
psychologist incumbents who take up a new 
appointment in another school as Educational 
Psychologist II on or after 1 September 2012); 
(d) 
good command of Cantonese and written 
Chinese; and 
(e) 
good command of spoken and written English. 
 
2. 
Duties: 
Educational Psychologists provide comprehensive 
services to schools at the following target levels: 
(a) 
Student support level 
 
To provide assessment, counseling and 
guidance services for students; 
 
To provide intervention or behavioural 
guidance 
programmes 
for 
students 
directly and/or in collaboration with 
school personnel such as teachers, school 
social workers and/or speech therapists, 
etc.; and 
 
＊ Schools should add a clause in the employment contracts for new appointees that if the appointees 
cannot obtain the above required full membership within 9 months after the appointment, their 
contracts will be terminated. 
 

=== Page 142 ===
142 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
To promote home-school co-operation in 
child management and deliver parent 
training programmes in collaboration with 
school personnel. 
(b) 
Teacher support level 
 
To 
support 
teachers 
in 
the 
early 
identification of at risk students as well 
as the planning and implementation of 
appropriate intervention measures for 
them; 
 
To advise teachers on measures to enhance 
learning and teaching effectiveness as 
well as behaviour support, including the 
formulation of individual education plans 
for the students; 
 
To advise teachers and school social 
workers in planning and implementing 
school-based 
psycho-educational 
programmes for students; 
 
To support teachers in school-based 
action research related to the domains of 
student support as well as learning and 
teaching; and 
 
To conduct staff development training to 
equip 
school 
personnel 
with 
the 
necessary professional knowledge and 
skills to meet the personal, social and 
special educational needs of students. 
(c) 
School system level 
 
To support schools in developing whole-
school policies to cater for student 
diversity; 
 
To 
support 
schools 
in 
developing 
effective mechanism to meet the diverse 
educational needs of their students; and 
 
To support schools in developing policy 
and mechanism on crisis management 
and to render crisis management service 
to schools whenever necessary. 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
(a) 
MPS Point 25 - Point 33 for those appointed 
before 1.4.2000 
(b) MPS Point 20 - Point 33 for those appointed 
between 1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates 
inclusive) 
 

=== Page 143 ===
143 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(c) MPS Point 25 - Point 33 for those appointed 
between 1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates 
inclusive) 
(d) MPS Point 23 - Point 33 for those appointed 
on or after 1.10.2010 
4.  
Period of Probation: 
2 years 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Educational Psychologist I 
 
Educational Psychologist II will be eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion 
to 
Educational 
Psychologist I if they have obtained: 
 
(a) A Post Graduate Certificate in Education from a 
local university or equivalent; and 
(b) 6 years’ relevant post-degree experience of 
which at least 3 years should be as an 
Educational Psychologist II; and 
(c) Full membership of the Division of Educational 
Psychology of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society 
or 
an 
equivalent 
status 
in 
an 
internationally 
recognised 
professional 
organization of Educational Psychology; and 
(d) Satisfactory service as Educational Psychologist 
II.  School should take into account the work 
performance, professional expertise, and other 
personal 
attributes, 
such 
as 
leadership, 
commitment, interpersonal skills, judgment, 
planning and organization abilities, etc. of the 
candidate when considering promotion.  (updated 
on 1 November 2013) 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
(a) Holders of degrees other than those from a 
local university or equivalent may apply, but 
should attach copies of transcripts of studies to 
their applications. 
(b) The candidate must be eligible for graduate 
membership of the Hong Kong Psychological 
Society or the British Psychological Society or 
equivalent.  The Master’s or Doctoral Degree in 
Educational Psychology (Professional Practice) 
obtained must be one which can prepare the 
candidate for independent professional work as 
an educational psychologist. 
(updated on 1 September 2018) 

=== Page 144 ===
144 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment K 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
Speech Therapist 
(updated on 1 September 2023) 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience for 
Appointment: 
Candidates should: 
(a) 
have a degree in Speech-Language Pathology from a 
local university, or equivalent;  
 
(b) 
(i) 
have Level 2 or above in English Language and 
Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Diploma 
of 
Secondary 
Education 
Examination 
(HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English 
Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language  
in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education 
Examination (HKCEE), or equivalent[Note] ; 
and 
 
(c) 
be able to speak fluent English and Cantonese, and 
write fluent English and Chinese. 
 
2. 
Duties: 
School-based speech therapists should work with the school 
in establishing clear aims of the school-based speech therapy 
services.  The services should cover the domain of 
prevention, remediation and enhancement, assist the school, 
teachers and parents in supporting students.  For example: 
• 
To assess and evaluate the educational needs of 
students in the areas of speech, language, 
communication, social and swallowing; 
• 
To provide school-based speech therapy services 
according to the needs of students and school, taking 
into account school policies, measures and cultures in 
the development and implementation of services; 
• 
To collaborate with school personnel such as 
teachers, school social workers and/or specialist staff, 
etc. in supporting the students; 
• 
To 
strengthen 
home-school 
cooperation 
/ 
collaboration 
by 
adopting 
diversified 
support 
strategies according to the needs of the students. 

=== Page 145 ===
145 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
 
 
(a) 
MPS Point 18 - Point 33 for those appointed before 
1.4.2000 
(b) 
MPS Point 13 - Point 33 for those appointed between 
1.4.2000 and 31.7.2007 (both dates inclusive) 
(c) 
MPS Point 18 - Point 33 for those appointed between 
1.8.2007 and 30.9.2010 (both dates inclusive) 
(d) 
MPS Point 16 - Point 33 for those appointed on or after 
1.10.2010 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
 
2 years 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
 
Nil 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
 
 
Nil 
 
[Note]:  
A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese 
Language in the HKCEE before 2007 are accepted administratively as comparable 
to “Level 2” in English Language and Chinese Language in the 2007 HKCEE and 
henceforth. 
 
 
The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those suitable candidates 
who do not possess the language qualifications.  Provided that the school is 
satisfied with the candidates’ language ability for carrying out the required duties, 
appointment can be offered. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 146 ===
146 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment L 
 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
 
School Executive Officer 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
 
Experience  
 
for Appointment: 
Candidates should have a local bachelor’s degree (or 
equivalent). 
 
2. 
Duties: 
To assist in supervising, coordinating and handling school 
administrative matters, with a view to strengthen the 
administration capabilities of the school and the school 
management committee. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 15 - Point 27 
4. 
Promotion Prospects: 
Nil 
5. 
Period of Probation: 
2 years 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
 
Nil 
 
 
 

=== Page 147 ===
147 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 Appendix 4/Attachment M 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
Physiotherapist I 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience for 
Appointment: 
      Candidates must: 
 
 have a professional Degree/Diploma in Physiotherapy issued 
by the Hong Kong Polytechnic/Polytechnic University, or 
equivalent; 
 
 
 be registered in Hong Kong as a Physiotherapist in Part Ia of 
the Register of Physiotherapists under the Supplementary 
Medical Professions Ordinance (Cap. 359); 
 
 
 have 
a 
valid 
Practising 
Certificate 
issued 
by 
the 
Physiotherapist Board of Hong Kong; 
 
 
 (i) 
have Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note];  
 
 
 be able to write fluent English and Chinese, and can speak 
fluent English and Cantonese; and 
 
 
 have at least 2 years of service as Physiotherapist II in aided 
special schools, or equivalent*. 
 
* such as experience acquired during service in Hospital 
Authority or Department of Health.  Experience acquired in 
non-governmental organisations may be considered subject 
to the availability of valid documentary proof including 
Certificate of Service, and the respective job duties, etc.  
 
2. 
Duties: 
Services of Physiotherapist I should cover professional and 
administrative aspects.  Physiotherapist I should work with the school 
in establishing clear aims of physiotherapy services, and assist the 
school, teachers and parents in supporting students. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
MPS Point 25 - Point 34 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
 
2 years  
 
 
Senior Physiotherapist 
 

=== Page 148 ===
148 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
 
 
Starting from 1 September 2021, all Physiotherapist II posts within 
the approved establishment of aided special schools are upgraded to 
Physiotherapist I posts.  Serving Physiotherapist II within the 
approved 
establishment 
appointed 
before 
aforementioned 
enhancement 
is 
still 
eligible 
for 
consideration 
for 
promotion/appointment to Physiotherapist I if he/she has met the 
requirements laid down in paragraph 1 above. 
 
(updated on 19 June 2024) 
 
[Note]:  
A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language 
in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) before 2007 are 
accepted administratively as comparable to “Level 2” in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the 2007 HKCEE and henceforth. 
 
The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those suitable candidates who do 
not possess the language qualifications.  Provided that the school is satisfied with the 
candidates’ language ability for carrying out the required duties, appointment can be 
offered. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 149 ===
149 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment N 
Guides to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
Occupational Therapist I 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience for 
Appointment: 
      Candidates must: 
 
 have a professional Degree/Diploma in Occupational 
Therapy issued by the Hong Kong Polytechnic/Polytechnic 
University, or equivalent;  
 
 
 be registered in Hong Kong as an Occupational Therapist in 
Part I of the Register of Occupational Therapists under the 
Supplementary Medical Professions Ordinance (Cap. 359);  
 
 
 have a valid Practising Certificate issued by the 
Occupational Therapists Board of Hong Kong;  
 
 
 (i) 
have Level 2 or above in English Language and 
Chinese Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of 
Secondary Education Examination (HKDSEE) or 
equivalent; or 
(ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note]; 
 
 
 be able to write fluent English and Chinese, and can speak 
fluent English and Cantonese; and 
 
 
 
 have at least 2 years of service as Occupational Therapist 
II in aided special schools, or equivalent*. 
 
*such as experience acquired during service in Hospital 
Authority or Department of Health.  Experience acquired in 
non-governmental organisations may be considered subject 
to the availability of valid documentary proof including 
Certificate of Service, and the respective job duties, etc..  
 
2. 
Duties: 
Services of Occupational Therapist I should cover professional and 
administrative aspects.  Occupational Therapist I should work with 
the school in establishing clear aims of occupational therapy 
services, and assist the school, teachers and parents in supporting 
students. 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
 
MPS Point 25 - Point 34 
 
4. 
Period of Probation: 
 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
 
2 years  
 
Senior Occupational Therapist 

=== Page 150 ===
150 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
 
 
Starting from 1 September 2021, all Occupational Therapist II 
posts within the approved establishment of aided special schools 
are upgraded to Occupational Therapist I posts.  Serving 
Occupational Therapist II within the approved establishment 
appointed before aforementioned enhancement is still eligible for 
consideration 
for 
promotion/appointment 
to 
Occupational 
Therapist I if he/she has met the requirements laid down in 
paragraph 1 above.   
 
(updated on 19 June 2024) 
 
[Note]:  
A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language 
in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) before 2007 are 
accepted administratively as comparable to “Level 2” in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the 2007 HKCEE and henceforth. 
 
The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those suitable candidates who 
do not possess the language qualifications.  Provided that the school is satisfied with the 
candidates’ language ability for carrying out the required duties, appointment can be 
offered. 
 
 
 

=== Page 151 ===
151 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 4/Attachment O 
Guide to Appointment 
Aided Special Schools 
Nursing Officer 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
(For information: This document is not part of any agreement of service) 
 
1. 
Qualifications and 
Experience for 
Appointment: 
(a)  Normally - Promotion 
Promotion rank for Registered Nurse/Registered Nurse 
(Psychiatric) 
 
(b) Exceptionally - Direct Entry: 
Candidates must: 
 
 have a Certificate of Registration (Part I or Part II) and a valid 
Practising Certificate issued by the Nursing Council of Hong 
Kong;  
 
 
 have one of the following qualifications or equivalent: 
(i) a certificate of nursing (awarded by the Hong Kong 
Government); 
(ii) a diploma in nursing (awarded by the Hong Kong 
Government); 
(iii) a degree in bachelor of nursing (awarded by an approved 
post-secondary institution in Hong Kong); 
(iv) a degree in master of nursing (awarded by an approved 
post-secondary institution in Hong Kong); and 
 
 
 have five years of experience as a practising registered nurse 
(including at least two years of service in aided special 
school(s))  
 
 
 (i) have Level 2 or above in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary 
Education Examination (HKDSEE) or equivalent; or 
(ii) have Level 2 / Grade E or above in English Language 
(Syllabus B) and Chinese Language in the Hong Kong 
Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE), or 
equivalent [Note]; and 
 
 
 be able to write fluent English and Chinese, and can speak 
fluent English and Cantonese.  
 
2. 
Duties: 
Nursing Officer has to assist the school head in leading the nurse team 
in the school section and the boarding section (if applicable) to cater 
for the needs of students (in particular students and boarders with 
medical complexity). 
3. 
Salary Scale: 
 
MPS Point 26 - Point 34 
4.        Period of Probation: 
 
2 years for direct entrants 
5. 
Promotion Prospects: 
 
Nil 

=== Page 152 ===
152 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
6. 
Any Other Remarks: 
 
In the case of promotion from Registered Nurse (Psychiatric) to 
Nursing Officer, as the salary scale of a Registered Nurse 
(Psychiatric) (MPS Pt 17 - 26) overlaps that of a Nursing Officer 
(MPS Pt 26 - 34), the promotees’ salary scale and incremental date 
will be determined as follows: 
 
(i) 
if their pay before promotion is less than the minimum of the 
pay scale of the new higher office by more than one point, they will 
enter at the minimum and their new incremental date will be 
determined by the date of their promotion; 
 
(ii) 
if their pay before promotion is less than the minimum of the 
pay scale of the new higher office by not more than one point, they 
will enter at the minimum and retain their existing incremental date; 
 
(iii) 
if the promotees are already receiving the maximum pay of 
their former office at the date of promotion, they will enter the new 
scale at the point next above their pay and their new incremental date 
will be determined by the date of promotion.  
 
 
[Note]:  
A candidate attaining “Grade E” in English Language (Syllabus B) and Chinese Language 
in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) before 2007 are 
accepted administratively as comparable to “Level 2” in English Language and Chinese 
Language in the 2007 HKCEE and henceforth. 
 
The school may conduct the language proficiency test for those suitable candidates who do 
not possess the language qualifications.  Provided that the school is satisfied with the 
candidates’ language ability for carrying out the required duties, appointment can be 
offered. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 153 ===
153 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Appendix 5 
 
Conditions for Promotion and Acting Appointment 
 
A. PROMOTION 
 
1. 
General 
 
All promotions are subject to the following common conditions as 
appropriate: 
 
(a) 
With the exception of the ranks of Laboratory Technician III and II 
and Educational Psychologist II and I which have a combined 
establishment, a vacancy must exist in the higher rank to which a 
candidate is recommended for promotion. 
 
(b) 
All eligible candidates must be assessed by a board the School 
Management Committee appointed for the selection exercise.  The 
selection board shall recommend a suitable candidate, if available, for 
the consideration and approval of the School Management 
Committee.  However, the approval of the Permanent Secretary is 
required for cases of promotion and acting appointment to the post of 
School Head, and direct entry to promotion posts.  For such cases, 
the application must be endorsed by the School Management 
Committee before submission to the Permanent Secretary for 
consideration. 
 
(c) 
The candidate must have undertaken training(s) specified by or 
acceptable to the Permanent Secretary and successfully completed a 
course of training in special education recognised by the Permanent 
Secretary in order to be eligible for substantive promotion.  Schools are 
advised to refer to the relevant circular(s) currently in force for details 
of 
the 
training 
requirements 
for 
promotion.   
(updated on 1 September 2021)  
 
(d) 
Teachers who have met all other promotion requirements except the 
specific training may be allowed to act in the promotion posts.  The 
teachers may be confirmed to the promotion ranks with retrospective 
effect from the date of the approved acting appointment provided that 
they complete/acquire the specific training in the same academic year.  
If a teacher acting in the promotion post fails to successfully 
complete/acquire the required training within the prescribed period 
and with no acceptable reasons, the School Management Committee 
should make an alternative appointment for the promotion post. 

=== Page 154 ===
154 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
2. 
Conditions for Promotion/Direct Appointment to the Additional Senior 
Teacher Post of English and the English Panel Chair Post 
 
(a) 
To be eligible for consideration for promotion/direct appointment to 
the post of the additional senior teacher of English (STE) in primary 
special schools/ primary section of special schools, a teacher should 
fulfil the appointment requirements laid down in the Guides to 
Appointment for PSM at Appendix 4. 
 
(b) For a teacher appointed as STE in primary special schools/primary 
section of special schools, or as English Panel Chair (EPC) in 
secondary special schools/secondary section of special schools, he/she 
should have attained the following Language Proficiency Requirement 
(LPR) –  
 
(i) 
Attaining an average proficiency at Level 4 of the English LPR 
(LP4) which means that he/she has met both of the following 
criteria: 
 
 
attained at least Level 3 in all the 5 papers in the Language 
Proficiency Assessment (LPA).  Specifically, he/she has to 
attain ‘3’ or above in Reading and Listening.  For Writing, 
Speaking and Classroom Language Assessment (CLA), the 
teacher has to attain, in 1 sitting, ‘3’ or above in all the 
scales of the respective papers; AND 
 
 
attained at Level 4 or above for 3 papers at least.  For Writing, 
Speaking and CLA, Level 4 is deemed to have been 
attained if more than half of the scales of the respective 
papers are scored, in 1 sitting, at ‘4’ or above (i.e. having 
attained Level 4 in 3 or more scales in Writing and CLA 
and 4 or more scales in Speaking); or 
 
(ii) Meeting the enhanced LPR for English teachers with effect from 
the 2024/25 school year as follows: 
 
 
attained an overall band score of 8.0 or above with no 
individual band scores (i.e. the Listening, Reading, Writing, 
and Speaking band scores) below 7.5 in the same Test Report 
Form in the Academic Module of the International English 
Language Testing System (IELTS), which remains valid up 
to two years after the test date/when taking up teaching the 
English Language subject; AND 
 
 
obtained the “attained with merit” result in the CLA (i.e. 
within the same sitting of the CLA, attain at least Level 4 or 
above on three out of the four scales and Level 3 or above on 
the remaining one scale). 
 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
 
(c) 
A teacher will not be affected by the LP4 requirement if: 
 

=== Page 155 ===
155 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(i) he/she had already taken up an EPC post on or before 
18.10.2001; or he/she was an existing STE appointed before 
1.9.2001; or 
 
(ii) he/she had already taken up an EPC post and was deployed to 
take up an EPC post, or was an existing STE on transfer to take 
up an existing STE post, without break of service in another 
school under the same sponsoring body within the aided school 
sector on or before 18.10.2001; or 
 
(iii) he/she was given an offer of promotion/direct appointment on or 
before 18.10.2001 to an EPC post, or to an existing STE post, 
which was to take effect in the 2001/02 school year. 
 
(d) 
Under the enhanced LPR, a teacher who has attained LP4 through 
attending authorised language proficiency training courses or taking 
the LPA by September 2024 will continue to be recognised, fulfilling 
the requirement for taking up an EPC/a STE post in the serving school 
or new school.  (updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
(e) 
However, whenever an EPC/a STE post is vacated, the school should 
accord priority to LP4 qualified candidates as stated in paragraph 
(2)(b)(i) or those meeting the English LPR as stated in paragraph 
(2)(b)(ii) in filling the post.  If a suitable candidate meeting the English 
LPR as stated in paragraph (2)(b) is not available, the school may 
employ a teacher who has met the basic LPR.  EPCs/STEs who have 
not met the English LPR as stated in paragraph (2)(b) are encouraged 
to acquire the said qualification through the IELTS and CLA.   
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
 
3. 
Conditions for Promotion of Staff to the next higher rank 
(updated on 1 September 2022) 
(a) Assistant Primary School Master/Mistress to Primary School 
Master/Mistress 
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix4/Attachment I(ii)] 
 
(b) Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress 
to 
Senior 
Primary 
School 
Master/Mistress or Headmaster/Headmistress II 
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix 4/Attachment H(ii)] 
 
(c) Senior Primary School Master/Mistress to Headmaster/Headmistress II 
or Principal Graduate Master/Mistress serving as Head/Principal 
II/Principal I of a special school with both primary and secondary 
sections  
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix 4/Attachment H(iii)] 
 
 
(d) Headmaster/Headmistress II to Headmaster/Headmistress I 
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix 4/Attachment G(ii)] 

=== Page 156 ===
156 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(e) Graduate Master/Mistress to Senior Graduate Master/Mistress  
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix 4/Attachment E] 
 
(f) Senior Graduate Master/Mistress to Principal Graduate Master/Mistress/ 
Principal II/Principal I 
 
Please see Guides to Appointment.  [Appendix 4/Attachment D] 
 
(g) Principal Graduate Master/Mistress to Principal II/Principal I 
 
Please see Guides to Appointment. [Appendix 4/Attachment C] 
 
(h) Educational Psychologist II to Educational Psychologist I 
 
Educational Psychologists II will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion to Educational Psychologists I on having: 
 
(i) 
met the promotion requirements as stipulated in the Guides to 
Appointment in Attachment J(ii) of Appendix 4; and 
(ii) satisfactory service as Educational Psychologist II.  School should 
take into account the work performance, professional expertise, 
and other personal attributes, such as leadership, commitment, 
interpersonal skills, judgment, planning and organization abilities, 
etc. of the candidate when considering promotion.  (updated on 13 
June 2013) 
 
(i) Laboratory Technician III to Laboratory Technician II 
  
Laboratory Technicians III will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion to Laboratory Technician II on having: 
 
(i) 
been confirmed to the permanent establishment and completed 
3 years’ satisfactory service; 
(ii) served for 1 year on the 3rd point of the salary scale; 
(iii) obtained an approved Laboratory Technician Certificate or 
equivalent; 
(iv) obtained a valid and approved First Aid Certificate, if the 
Certificate in (c) above does not contain first aid training as one 
of its course components. 
 
(j) Laboratory Technician II to Laboratory Technician I 
 
Laboratory Technicians II will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion / direct appointment to Laboratory Technicians I provided 
that they have at least 5 years of satisfactory service as Laboratory 
Technicians II.  It should be noted, however, that posts of Laboratory 
Technicians I will only be established in secondary special schools 

=== Page 157 ===
157 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
with 5 or more laboratories or in a school for children with hearing 
impairment with more than 17 classes, and at the discretion of the 
Permanent Secretary.  (updated on 21 July 2023) 
 
(k) Physiotherapist I to Senior Physiotherapist 
 
Physiotherapists 
I 
will 
be 
eligible 
for 
consideration 
for 
promotion/direct appointment to Senior Physiotherapists, if they have 
at least 5 years of satisfactory service as Physiotherapists I. 
 
(l) Occupational Therapists I to Senior Occupational Therapist 
 
Occupational Therapists I will be eligible for consideration for 
promotion/direct appointment to Senior Occupational Therapists, if 
they have at least 3 years of satisfactory service as Occupational 
Therapists I. 
 
(m) Registered Nurse/Registered Nurse (Psychiatric) to Nursing Officer 
 
Please see the qualifications and experience required for appointment to 
the post of Nursing Officer.  (Appendix 4/Attachment O) 
 
(n) Assistant Warden to Warden 
 
Please see the qualifications and experience required for appointment 
to the post of Warden.  (Paragraph 13 Section C of Appendix 4) 
 
(o) Houseparent/Programme Worker to Assistant Warden 
 
Houseparents and Programme Workers with 5 years’ recognised post-
qualification experience may be considered for promotion to Assistant 
Wardens at the Senior Social Work Assistant level) for boarding 
sections with a capacity of 40 or more boarders.  For boarding sections 
with a capacity of less than 40 boarders, one of the Houseparents or 
Programme Workers may be assigned as Assistant Warden at the Social 
Work Assistant level and be granted a responsibility allowance 
equivalent to the 2 additional increments above the substantive pay of 
the Assistant Warden on the Social Work Assistant scale. 

=== Page 158 ===
158 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
B. 
ACTING APPOINTMENTS 
 
1. 
Full-time Graduate Masters/Mistresses may be recommended for appointment to 
vacant promotion grade posts in the rank of Senior Graduate Masters/Mistresses 
on an acting basis and the following rules will apply to all acting appointments: 
2. 
The periods of acting will normally be for 1 year, or until the teacher becomes fully 
qualified, whichever is the longer; 
3. 
Before the end of an acting period, the teacher should normally be recommended 
either for substantive promotion to the higher post or for reversion to his former 
post; 
4. 
Shorter periods of acting (not less than 6 months) and longer periods of acting (not 
more than 2 years) may be recommended, where there are good reasons for doing 
so, and will be considered.  However, extensions of acting beyond 2 years will not 
normally be approved unless there are very special circumstances to warrant such 
an extension (for example, that the teacher is still not fully qualified). 
 
Note: 
Teaching experience in schools in the Direct Subsidy Scheme will be recognised for 
promotion purposes. 

=== Page 159 ===
159 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 6 
 
Terms of Employment for Laboratory Technicians 
 
1. 
School’s entering into a Contract with a Laboratory Technician on Appointment 
 
The School Management Committee, on the appointment of a 
laboratory technician, should enter into a contract of service with him. 
 
 
2. 
School’s entering into a Contract with a Laboratory Technician immediately 
after Probation 
 
The School Management Committee should enter into a contract 
with a laboratory technician immediately after his 2 years of probationary 
period, which shall not be subject to annual renewal. 
 
 
3. 
Terms of Employment to be mentioned in the Contract of Service for the 
Laboratory Technician 
 
(a) 
Probationary Period 
The duration of probation for a laboratory technician shall be 
2 years or on completion of an approved Laboratory Technician 
Certificate Course or an approved appropriate course of training, 
whichever is the longer. 
 
(b) 
Termination of Appointment during and after Probationary Period 
 
(i) 
During probationary Period 
 
The appointment of a laboratory technician who is serving a period 
of probation shall be terminable by the School Management 
Committee or the laboratory technician giving 1 month’s notice in 
writing. 
 
(ii) 
After Probationary Period 
The appointment of a laboratory technician who has satisfactorily 
completed a probationary period, shall be terminable by the School 
Management Committee or the laboratory technician giving 3 
months’ notice in writing. 
 
 

=== Page 160 ===
160 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
(c) 
Duties 
(i) 
To take charge of the operation and maintenance of the laboratories 
and assist teachers and students in performing science experiments 
and other science-related activities; 
(ii) 
Where necessary, other related duties as considered appropriate. 
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
 
4. 
Working Experience counted for Incremental Purpose 
 
Relevant laboratory technician experience in the universities and 
polytechnic, and in a caput or assisted private or bought-place school bound by 
contract since 1 September 1990, shall be accepted as recognised experience for 
incremental purpose in aided schools Note. 
 
 
5. 
Signing of an Undertaking by the Laboratory Technician recommended to attend 
an Approved Laboratory Technician Certificate Course or an Approved 
Appropriate Course of Training 
 
The laboratory technician who has been recommended to attend an 
approved Laboratory Technician Certificate Course or an approved appropriate 
course of training shall sign an undertaking with the school by which he agrees 
to serve in the school for at least 1 year after completion of the course. 
 
 
6. 
Direct appointment of Laboratory Technician I 
 
Candidates should have fulfilled all requirements for normal 
promotion to Laboratory Technician I.  The decision of direct appointment of 
Laboratory Technician II to promotion rank must be supported by the majority of 
members of the School Management Committee and is fully justifiable. 
(updated on 21 July 2023) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 161 ===
161 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
7. 
Direct Appointment of Laboratory Technician II 
 
Should there be a vacancy, it is permissible for the school to offer 
direct appointment of Laboratory Technician II to the appropriate applicant who 
is serving/has served as Laboratory Technician II in a government secondary 
school or in another aided school even under a different sponsor Note.  In the case 
of laboratory technicians for the maintenance of audiological equipment in 
schools for the hearing impaired, candidates with the appropriate training and 
3 years of relevant experience may also be considered for direct appointment as 
Laboratory Technician II.  (updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
Note: 
The working experience of a laboratory technician in a DSS school operating local science 
curricula can be considered as equivalent to that in an aided secondary school. 
(updated on 1 September 2017)

=== Page 162 ===
162 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 7 
 
Teaching Staff’s Contracts 
 
 
1. 
School’s entering into a contract with a teacher immediately after probation 
 
The School Management Committee should enter into a contract 
with a teacher immediately after his 2 years of probationary period.  The 
contract shall not be subject to annual renewal. 
 
 
2. 
Dismissal/Termination of Appointment of a teacher after probation 
 
The procedures relating to Dismissal or Termination of Appointment 
of a teacher as spelt out at Appendix 8 of this Code of Aid should be observed 
strictly. 
 
 
3. 
Dismissal/Termination of Appointment of a teacher in the middle of the 
academic year during probationary period 
 
The procedures relating to Dismissal or Termination of Appointment 
of a teacher as spelt out at Appendix 8 of this Code of Aid should be observed 
strictly. 
 
 
4. 
Dismissal/Termination of Appointment of a teacher at the end of the first and 
second academic year during probationary period 
 
If a teacher is still found by the School Management Committee to 
be performing his duties in an unsatisfactory manner (including personality, 
character and philosophy of education), and showing no improvement in his 
work after being advised, the School Management Committee can opt for any 
one of the following 3 measures: 
 
Either (a) To follow the procedures with regard to Dismissal or Termination 
of Appointment of a teacher as spelt out at Appendix 8 of this 
Code of Aid. 

=== Page 163 ===
163 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
or 
(b) A verbal warning can be given to the teacher by the School 
Head.  The content of the warning should be noted down in the 
school record for future reference.  The teacher, to whom the 
warning is given, may note down the content of the warning for 
his own reference and improvement. 
 
or 
(c) After informing verbally the teacher of his shortcomings, the 
School Head may serve the teacher a written letter, listing the 
weaknesses mentioned in their discussion, and may ask the 
teacher to sign in acknowledgement of the letter. 
 
 
For the School Management Committee opting for (b) or (c), the 
following points should be observed: 
 
(i) 
It is not necessary for the School Management Committee to 
notify the Permanent Secretary of such verbal warning(s).  
However, the record(s) should be made available for 
inspection by the officers of the Education Bureau, if and 
when required. 
 
(ii) 
The written letter should be copied to the Education Bureau 
for record purposes.  The Permanent Secretary may 
investigate at the request of the teacher concerned. 
 
(iii) If the teacher concerned takes no notice of the verbal 
warning(s), the School Management Committee may terminate 
the appointment of the teacher by giving 1 month’s notice at 
the end of the school year. 

=== Page 164 ===
164 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 8 
 
 
Procedure to be followed in Case of Dismissal 
or Termination of Appointment of a Teacher 
 
 
The procedure to be followed by the School Management Committee 
should be as follows: 
 
(a) 
The teacher concerned should be given a warning, or warnings that 
his work is unsatisfactory.  This should be recorded in the school 
files. 
 
(b) 
If no improvement in the teacher’s work is noticeable after an 
appropriate period then a formal written warning embodying 
relevant criticisms should be given to the teacher, and a copy of this 
letter should be forwarded to the Permanent Secretary for 
information.  This should be recorded in the school files. 
 
(c) 
On receipt of this letter the Permanent Secretary shall investigate the 
circumstances. 
 
(d) 
If the teacher after receiving the warning letter still shows no 
improvement after an appropriate period, normally not less than 1 
month, and the School Management Committee intends to dismiss 
him or not to renew his contract after the date of expiry, the 
Supervisor shall so inform the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(e) 
In each case of dismissal of a teacher, a sufficient period of notice of 
termination of employment must be given in accordance with 
Section 61. 

=== Page 165 ===
165 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 9 
 
Payment of Salaries on Appointment, Resignation, 
Retirement or Termination of Appointment 
 
1. 
(a) 
A teacher with 1 academic year’s service or more without break whose 
appointment terminates no earlier than the beginning of 
 
(i) 
the major school holidays, i.e., Christmas, Chinese New Year and 
Easter Holidays will be paid to the end of the school holidays; 
 
(ii) 
the Summer Vacation will be paid to the end of August. 
 
(b) 
A teacher with service of less than 1 academic year but more than 59 
days whose appointment terminates no earlier than the beginning of 
 
(i) 
the major school holidays, i.e., Christmas, Chinese New Year and 
Easter Holidays will be paid to the end of the school holidays; 
 
(ii) 
the Summer Vacation will be paid to the end of July. 
 
(c) 
A teacher with service of 59 days or less shall be paid up to and including 
the last day of the performance of full duties. 
 
(d) 
A teacher who resigns from one aided school to take up a new 
appointment in another aided school on the commencement day of a new 
school year and without break in teaching service, other than such break 
as the Permanent Secretary may approve, will be paid by the school he 
leaves for the period up to and including the last day of performance of 
full duties in that school, and by the school to which he is newly appointed 
from the day following his last day of performance of full duties in 
the former school. 
 
2. 
In a newly-opened special school, the date of assumption of full duties 
shall normally be deemed to be the date of commencement of classes.  The 
Permanent Secretary may approve, for purposes of grant, the appointment of staff 
who are required for essential preliminary planning of new special schools in advance 
of the date of commencement of classes, and in the case of reprovisioned special 
schools he may approve the continued payment of the salaries of staff of the original 
school should the completion of the building be delayed beyond the scheduled date. 

=== Page 166 ===
166 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 10 
 
Grant of Sick Leave, Special Tuberculosis Leave and Paternity Leave 
 
I. 
SICK LEAVE 
 
1. Teachers, Laboratory Technicians, Specialist Staff and School Executive 
Officers 
 
(a) Full-time monthly-paid teachers including temporary monthly-paid 
teachers may be granted up to 28 days paid sick leave in their first year 
of service in aided schools.  On completion of each succeeding year 
of service in aided schools a further 48 days in total would be granted.  
Paid sick leave can be accumulated up to a maximum of 168 days.  The 
calculation of leave entitlement for part-time monthly-paid staff should 
be the same as the full-time monthly-paid staff.  However, with effect 
from 1 September 2006, a teacher with a break of service of more than 
1 year will forfeit his/her sick leave balance.  (updated on 16 November 2006) 
 
(b) Laboratory technicians, specialist staff and school executive officers shall 
enjoy such benefits as teachers with regard to sick leave, except that a 
laboratory technician, a specialist and a school executive officer with a 
break of service of more than 45 days will forfeit his/her sick leave 
balance.  (updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
(c) Daily-rated supply teachers, laboratory technicians and specialist staff 
who have worked under a continuous contract for not less than 4 weeks 
are eligible for sickness allowance at the rate of 2 paid sickness days for 
each completed month of employment in accordance with the Employment 
Ordinance. 
 
(d) Sick leave exceeding 2 days should be supported by a valid medical 
certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered dentist 
or a registered Chinese medicine practitioner*.  (updated on 29 January 2007) 
 
(e) No-pay sick leave may be granted if a member of staff’s leave balance/ 
entitlement has been exhausted. 
 
 
2. Non-teaching non-specialist Staff 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Employment Ordinance, 
 
(a) Full paid sick leave may be granted to non-teaching non-specialist staff 
paid out of the Salaries Grant in an aided special school. 
 
(b) The entitlement to sick leave is at the rate of 2 paid sickness days for 
each completed month of service during the first 12 months of 
employment and 4 paid sickness days for each month of service thereafter. 
 
(c) The maximum sick leave balance which may be accumulated shall be 
120 days. 

=== Page 167 ===
167 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
(d) Paid sickness days are divided into 2 categories.  Category 1 is made up 
of paid sickness days accumulated each month up to a total number of 
36 days.  Category 2 is made up of paid sickness days in excess of 
36 days which cannot be entered in category 1, but the total number of 
paid sickness days in this category cannot at any time exceed 84 days.  
Paid sickness days accumulated in Category 1 can be taken upon the 
production of a valid medical certificate issued by a registered medical 
practitioner, a registered dentist or a registered Chinese medicine 
practitioner*.  Where the number of paid sickness days taken exceeds 
the total number of paid sickness days in Category 1, the excess days 
shall be deducted from the total number of paid sickness days 
accumulated in Category 2.  In this case, the member of staff can be 
required to produce a medical certificate issued by a hospital registered 
medical practitioner, registered dentist or registered Chinese medicine 
practitioner*.  (updated on 29 January 2007) 
 
(“Hospital” in this context includes all government hospitals and 
specialist clinics and private hospitals registered under the Hospitals, 
Nursing Homes and Maternity Homes Registered Ordinance.) 
 
(e) No-pay sick leave may be granted if a member of staff’s leave balance/ 
entitlement has been exhausted. 
 
Note: Sick leave of School Executive Officers should be referred to Section I(1) of 
this Appendix. 
 
 
II. 
SPECIAL TUBERCULOSIS LEAVE 
 
1. 
Teachers, Laboratory Technicians, Specialist Staff and School Executive 
Officers who are suffering from tuberculosis may be granted special 
tuberculosis leave with full pay with the support of a valid medical 
certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner or a registered Chinese 
medicine practitioner* on the following terms: 
 
(a) those with more than 1 but less than 4 years of service may be granted up 
to 3 months leave on full pay; 
 
(b) those with 4 or more but less than 8 years of service may be granted up 
to 6 months leave on full pay; 
 
(c) those with 8 or more than 8 years of service may be granted up to 6 
months leave on full pay plus 2 weeks additional sick leave in respect 
of each additional year of service over 8 years up to a maximum of 12 
months leave on full pay. 
 
Service under all these provisions means service deemed to be continuous 
by the Permanent Secretary. 
(updated on 1 September 2019) 
 
2. 
Upon exhaustion of special tuberculosis leave balance and sick leave balance, 
the staff will be granted no-pay special tuberculosis leave. 
 
 
 

=== Page 168 ===
168 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
III. 
PATERNITY LEAVE 
 
Staff with not less than 40 weeks’ continuous service immediately before taking the 
paternity leave are eligible for full-pay paternity leave up to 5 working days.  Schools 
are required to follow the administration arrangements of paternity leave as set out in 
the prevailing circular available on the Education Bureau homepage.  
 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
* The arrangement for the recognition of sick leave certificates issued by registered 
Chinese medicine practitioners for sick leave with effect from 1 December 2006 
is not applicable to sick leave for injury on duty/occupational disease unless 
and until the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance is amended to this effect. 

=== Page 169 ===
169 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 11 
 
Grant of Maternity Leave 
 
1. 
Female staff who have completed 40 weeks of resident service prior to the 
commencement of scheduled maternity leave may be granted 14 weeks full-pay maternity 
leave.  There is no limitation on the number of surviving children that a female staff may 
have in order to be qualified for maternity leave pay.  (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
2. 
Female staff employed under a continuous contract but with less than 40 weeks 
of resident service may be granted maternity leave without pay.  The calculation of leave 
entitlement for part-time monthly-paid staff should be the same as the full-time monthly-paid 
staff. 
 
3. 
Maternity leave shall be the aggregate of: 
 
(a) 
a continuous period of 14 weeks from and inclusive of - 
 
(i) 
the date of commencement of maternity leave as determined under 
section 12AA of the Employment Ordinance (see below); or 
 
(ii) 
the actual date of confinement, if confinement occurs before the 
date of commencement mentioned in subparagraph (i); 
 
(b) 
a further period equal to the number of days, if any, beginning on the day 
after the expected date of confinement up to and including the actual date 
of confinement; such further period of leave is to be taken immediately 
following the period of leave under paragraph (a); and 
 
(c) 
a further period, not exceeding 4 weeks, on grounds of illness or 
disability arising out of the pregnancy or confinement. 
 
Under section 12AA of the Employment Ordinance, a pregnant employee may, 
with the agreement of the employer, decide on the date of commencement of her 
maternity leave, provided that such date is within a period of not less than 2 
weeks before, and not more than 4 weeks before, the expected date of 
confinement.  If the employee does not exercise her option to decide on the date 
of commencement, or if she fails to secure her employer’s agreement to her 
proposed leave schedule, the date of commencement of maternity leave shall be 
4 weeks immediately before the expected date of confinement.  
(updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
4. 
The entitlement to pay is, however, limited to the period of 14 weeks.  An 
accurate record of any maternity leave granted shall be kept by the school.  (updated on 1 January 
2019) 
 
5. 
When more absence is recommended by a registered medical practitioner or a 
registered Chinese medicine practitioner, additional maternity leave may be granted as no-
pay leave to bring the total absence up to 6 months.  Further leave without pay on the same 
terms may be granted.  (updated on 29 January 2007) 

=== Page 170 ===
170 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
 
6. 
The following categories of teachers / laboratory technicians / specialist staff / 
school executive officers will also be eligible for full pay for any part of the maternity leave 
which falls within a major school holiday, i.e. Christmas, Chinese New Year, Easter and 
Summer Vacation : 
 
(a) 
Female staff whose maternity leave exceeds 14 weeks as provided in 
paragraph 3(a) and the excess portion of maternity leave as provided in 
paragraph 3(b) and/or 3(c) falls wholly or partly within a major school 
holiday; and 
 
(b) 
Female staff who are employed under a continuous contract but have less 
than 40 weeks’ resident service to qualify for full pay maternity leave and 
whose maternity leave as provided in paragraph 3 falls wholly or partly 
within a major school holiday. 
(updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
7. 
Maternity leave is not counted as sick leave. 
 
8. 
A female staff is not entitled to maternity leave whilst absent from duty for 
other reasons. 
 
9. 
A female staff has to serve notice of pregnancy and of her intention to take 
maternity leave to her employer after her pregnancy has been confirmed by a valid medical 
certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner, a registered midwife or a registered 
Chinese medicine practitioner (except for the certificate of the actual date of confinement).  
If required by the employer, the female staff has to produce a medical certificate which 
specifies the expected date of confinement for the 14 weeks of maternity leave under 
subparagraph 3 (a)(i) or a medical certificate which specifies the date of confinement for 
the 14 weeks of maternity leave under subparagraph 3 (a)(ii).  A female staff who may take 
any period of maternity leave under paragraph 3 (b) shall, if so required by her employer, 
produce a medical certificate specifying the date of confinement.  (updated on 1 January 2019) 
 
10. 
A pregnant female staff may, on producing a medical certificate issued by a 
registered medical practitioner or a registered Chinese medicine practitioner with an opinion 
as to her unfitness to handle heavy materials, work in places where gas injurious to pregnancy 
is generated, or do other work injurious to pregnancy as specified in the medical certificate, 
request her employer to refrain from giving her such work during her pregnancy period. 
(updated on 29 January 2007) 

=== Page 171 ===
171 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 12 
 
Annual Leave 
 
1. Teaching Staff  
 
For the sake of smooth operation and operational need of a school, the annual leave of 
teachers is subsumed under the major school holidays, which are 90 days a year including 
public holidays and are primarily holidays for pupils.  Teachers may also enjoy these 
school holidays but they may be required to carry out extra-curricular duties or assist in 
performing school administrative duties during these holidays at the schools' discretion.   
 
2. Non-teaching Staff  
 
(a) Non-teaching staff paid out of the Salaries Grant appointed on/after 1 June 2000, who 
do not enjoy school holidays, may be granted paid leave on an annual basis, preferably 
during major school holidays subject to mutual agreement between the school and the 
staff, as follows:  
 
Salary point 
(Master Pay Scale) 
Less than 
10 years of service 
10 years of service 
and over 
0 - 13 or equivalent and 
Model Scale I 
 
14 days 
18 days 
14 and above 
18 days 
22 days 
 
(b) For non-teaching staff paid out of the Salaries Grant offered appointments before 1 June 
2000*, their entitlement to annual leave with pay is as follows:  
 
Post 
Paid leave entitlement per annum 
Laboratory technicians 
and specialist staff 
Not less than 22 days irrespective of number of years of 
service  
 
Others 
Not more than 10 years’ service  
More than 10 years’ service  
14 days  
22 days  
 
* Staff members should be regarded as appointed before 1 June 2000 so long as -  
(i) 
they remain in their present rank or get promoted to a higher rank in the same grade 
in their school; or  
(ii) they are deployed to the same rank from one aided school to another under the same 
sponsoring body; or  
(iii) they transfer to the same rank without a break in service within the aided school 
sector.  Transfer within a period of 45 days will not be taken as break in service.  
 
(c) No replacement will be granted for non-teaching staff on such leave.  
 
(updated on 1 September 2017) 

=== Page 172 ===
172 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 13 
 
 
Subsidised Schools Provident Fund 
 
Teachers joining the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund are subject to the 
Rules of the Fund which are statutory rules made under the Education Ordinance. 
The following are extracts of certain main features for easy reference only. 
 
1. 
With effect from 1 September 1980, Government’s subsidies towards the 
employers’ contribution in respect of the Subsidised Schools Provident Fund shall be 
made in accordance with the following scale: 
 
Length of continuous 
contributory service 
Employers’ contribution 
(percentage of employees’ salary) 
 
Less than 10 years 
5% 
 
Not less than 10 years 
) 
but less than 15 years 
) 
10% 
 
Not less than 15 years 
15% 
 
 
 
2. 
Employees’ contribution shall remain at 5%. 
 
3. 
Every teacher who is not over the age of 55 upon his first appointment to 
a school on or after 24 June 1982 is required to contribute to the Fund.  A part-time 
teacher employed on a regular basis may at his option contribute to the provident 
fund. 
 
4. 
An annual dividend to each contributor of 5 per cent of his account is 
guaranteed and any shortfall in funds for the purpose of the guaranteed dividend is to 
be met by a loan (repayable without interest) made by the Government to the Funds.  
No supplementary dividend may be declared if there is an outstanding loan. 
 
5. 
Benefits to contributors are increased on the following sliding scale 
according to length of continuous contributory service on withdrawal from the Funds 
in normal circumstances: 

=== Page 173 ===
173 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Benefits on Withdrawal 
 
 
 
 
Length of continuous 
contributory service 
Contributor’s 
own contribution 
plus dividends 
declared thereon 
Government’s 
donation plus 
dividends 
declared thereon 
 
Less than 5 years 
100% 
Nil 
 
Not less than 5 years 
) 
but less than 6 years 
) 
100% 
50% 
 
Not less than 6 years 
) 
but less than 7 years 
) 
100% 
60% 
 
Not less than 7 years 
) 
but less than 8 years 
) 
100% 
70% 
 
Not less than 8 years 
) 
but less than 9 years 
) 
100% 
80% 
 
Not less than 9 years 
) 
but less than 10 years 
) 
100% 
90% 
 
Not less than 10 years 
100% 
100% 

=== Page 174 ===
174 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 14 
 
Operating Expenses Block Grant   
 
Structure 
 
1. The Operating Expenses Block Grant (OEBG) covers various non-salary 
recurrent grants with the exception of grants disbursed on an actual claim or 
reimbursement basis.  The Grant comprises a General and a Special Domain as 
follows: 
 
(a) General Domain 
 
Schools are free to decide the amount to be spent on individual constituent grants 
under this domain.  If surpluses are available, schools may use such funds to top 
up expenditure on items in the Special Domain.  Surplus of the General Domain 
can also be used on items chargeable to other government subsidies outside the 
OEBG. 
 
(b) Special Domain 
 
This covers grants which are allocated for achieving specific policy objectives. 
Each grant under the Special Domain is separate and no transfer among the grants 
will be allowed.  To ensure that schools will deploy the funds for the specified 
purposes, funds in this domain cannot be transferred out either, but they may be 
topped up with surpluses from the General Domain. 
 
2. The Permanent Secretary may review the rates, the grouping of the constituent 
grants and virement arrangement when required.  Schools are advised to refer to 
the relevant circular currently in force. 
 
Principles & Rules on Usage 
 
3. The OEBG provides schools with greater flexibility in the use of resources.  In 
this regard, schools are allowed to set their own spending priorities and 
allocations, having regard to the objectives and policies laid down by their School 
Management Committees (SMCs). 
 
4. In exercising the flexibility, schools should always bear in mind that the interest 
of students comes first.  They should also ensure that the expenditure incurred is 
reasonable and necessary for educational purposes.  Thus, for instance, schools 
should keep expenditure on purchase of flower-baskets for ceremonial activities 
to a minimum.  In addition, schools should ensure that any recurrent 
consequences arising from exercising funding flexibility will be absorbed within 
the OEBG or met by schools' own funds. 
 
5. In incurring expenditure, schools should observe the ambit of the constituent 
grants of the OEBG, as set out in the Code of Aid and in circulars issued by the 
Education Bureau from time to time.  In addition, schools should ensure that the  
total spending should be kept within the amount of the OEBG, i.e. no topping up 
of the OEBG will be given. 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 175 ===
175 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
6. Subsidy will continue to be provided for provident fund (PF) contributions in 
respect of clerical and janitor staff employed within the provision allocated for 
the Administration Grant or the Revised Administration Grant.  For staff 
employed with funds under other constituent grants of the OEBG, schools should 
meet the PF contributions with surplus funds under the OEBG or their own 
funds. 
 
7. On the basis of the principles and rules stated above, the following items of 
expenditure shall not be charged to the OEBG: 
 
(a) 
entertainment expenses such as lunch/dinner for staff not related to their 
discharge of duties; 
 
(b) 
fringe benefits/welfare for staff, including housing benefits, provision of 
food or food allowance, medical expenses, travelling expenses etc.; 
 
(c) 
penalty charges, fines and interest payments; 
 
(d) 
loans to staff or third parties; 
 
(e) 
subscription to staff associations and professional bodies; 
 
(f) 
write-offs e.g. overpayments; 
 
(g) 
administrative and management expenses, including salaries of staff, of the 
headquarters or other service units of the sponsoring organisation; and  
 
(h) 
donations. 
 
The above list is not exhaustive.  The Education Bureau will revise the list and 
inform schools of the changes as and when appropriate.  
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
Rates of the OEBG 
 
8. When first introduced in the 2000/01 school year, the OEBG had the rates set on 
the basis of the rates approved for the 1999/2000 school year.  The OEBG rates 
will be revised annually in accordance with the movement of the Composite 
Consumer Price Index.  The Education Bureau will also review the need to 
revise in real terms the rates of individual grants as and when required. 
 
Surplus Retention 
 
9. To give schools greater flexibility, schools are allowed to retain surplus balance 
up to 12 months’ provision of the OEBG.  Applications for accumulation of 
surpluses in excess of 12 months’ provision will only be considered in 
exceptional circumstances. 
 
10. Schools should ascertain the surplus balances of grants under the General Domain 
and the Special Domain respectively.  The surpluses should be totalled and if 
this total exceeds the 12 months’ provision of the prevailing level of the OEBG, 
schools should return the excess to the Education Bureau. 
 
 
 

=== Page 176 ===
176 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
11. When the surplus exceeds the 12 months’ provision, schools are free to decide 
from which constituent grant the excess may be clawed back by the Education 
Bureau. 
 
Expenditure Control & Accountability 
 
12. To ensure that the OEBG funds are spent properly and cost-effectively, schools 
should obtain directives from their SMCs regarding the scope, criteria and rules 
for allocating funds.  Schools should ensure that the approved budget is followed 
in incurring expenditure.  To cope with urgent or unforeseeable circumstances, 
schools may consider seeking delegation of the authority from SMCs for 
making changes to the budget up to a certain financial limit. 
 
13. Schools should ensure that the total expenditure is kept within the amount of the 
OEBG.  Any deficit will have to be met by the schools' own funds.  Also, if 
expenditure is found improperly incurred or charged to the OEBG funds, the 
school should make good such expenditure by charging it to its own funds. 
 
Accounting and Reporting Requirements 
 
14. Schools should continue to maintain separate ledger accounts for each constituent 
grant of the OEBG.  In addition, schools should keep a General Domain Control 
Account and a Special Domain Control Account for the purpose of recording and 
monitoring the surpluses.  Schools should also report periodically to their SMCs 
the expenditure position of the OEBG. 
 
15. Schools should submit audited annual accounts and such other financial 
statements in accordance with the format as required by the Education Bureau.  
The auditors should certify that the OEBG funds have been used in accordance 
with the ambit and rules as promulgated in the Code of Aid and in circulars 
issued by the Education Bureau from time to time. 

=== Page 177 ===
177 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
Appendix 15 
 
 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
 
Ambit 
 
1. The Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant (CFEG) covers - 
 
(a) Furniture & Equipment (F&E) items to meet the needs of school and 
students; 
 
(b) maintenance/repairs fees for F&E items; and 
 
(c) insurance premium for non-standard F&E items for school portions. 
 
Schools may make reference to the F&E lists for standard design schools 
issued by the Education Bureau. 
 
Principles and Rules on Usage 
 
2. The CFEG provides schools with greater flexibility in the use of resources.   
Schools should set their spending priorities and allocations in line with the 
objectives and policies laid down by their School Management Committees 
(SMCs).  In exercising the flexibility, schools should always bear in mind that 
the interest of students should come first.  They should ensure that the 
expenditure incurred is reasonable and necessary for educational purposes and 
that the procured F&E items are properly recorded, managed and protected from 
loss or damage.  In addition, schools should ensure that the CFEG is able to 
cover all the expenditures. 
 
Grant Rate 
 
3. The rate will be adjusted annually in accordance with the movement of the 
Composite Consumer Price Index. 
 

=== Page 178 ===
178 
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
 
 
Procurement, Financial and Accounting Arrangements 
 
4. Procurement and Financial Arrangements 
 
Within the amount of the CFEG available in school, there is no financial limit for 
F&E items to be purchased.  Schools should adhere to the guidelines on tendering 
and purchasing procedures and any guidelines the Permanent Secretary may issue. 
 
5. Accounting Arrangements 
 
Schools should maintain a separate account named “Composite Furniture and 
Equipment Grant Account” to record the income and expenditure of the CFEG. 
The cost of the procured F&E should be captured in the Balance Sheet under the 
headings of “ Fixed Assets for Furniture and Equipment” and “Composite 
Furniture and Equipment Grant Utilised”.  In addition, schools are required to 
record the items procured in the Fixed Assets Register. 
 
6. Expenditure Control 
 
(a) To ensure that the CFEG funds are spent properly and effectively, schools 
should obtain directives from their SMCs regarding the scope, criteria and 
rules of allocating funds.  Schools should devise their own budget on how 
to use the CFEG funds and seek the approval of their SMCs of the budget 
and make the approved budget transparent to parents and teachers. 
 
(b) Schools should ensure that the total expenditure is kept within the amount of 
the CFEG.  Also, if any expenditure is found improperly incurred or charged 
to the CFEG funds, schools are required to make good such expenditure by 
non-government funds. 
 
Accountability 
 
7. 
Schools have to account for the proper utilization of the CFEG by 
 
(a) ensuring that they have suitable F&E items for the delivery of educational 
services and that such F&E items are properly recorded, managed and 
protected from loss or damage; 
 
(b) developing accountable school-based procedures for F&E acquisition/ 
replacement, monitoring and evaluation; 

=== Page 179 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
179 
 
(c) relating the school budget, including the budget for F&E, to the annual school 
plan; 
 
(d) keeping a separate account named “Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
Account” to record the income and expenditure of the CFEG; and 
 
(e) making available the school report with a financial statement for stakeholders 
and the Education Bureau.  (with eff on 1 September 2017) 
 
Separate F&E Subsidy outside the CFEG (Appendix 16 is relevant) 
 
8. Separate F&E subsidy will continue to be provided to schools by the Education 
Bureau for 
 
(a) School Administration and Management System, education television and 
information technology in education projects; 
 
(b) replacing standard F&E items lost in natural disaster, burglary, theft, fire etc.; 
and 
 
(c) new initiatives.  (However, expenditures on replacement of these F&E items 
have to be met by the CFEG.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 180 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
180 
 
Appendix 16 
 
 
Non-recurrent Grants (Furniture and Equipment) 
 
 
Provision for furniture and equipment items not covered by the Composite Furniture and 
Equipment Grant (CFEG)  
 
 
1. 
Separate non-recurrent subsidy will be provided for furniture and equipment 
(F&E) items costing $3,000 or above not covered by the CFEG for: 
 
(a) School Administration and Management System; 
 
(b) replacing standard F&E items lost in natural disaster, burglary, theft, fire etc.;  
 
(c) reprovisioning or redevelopment of and extension to an existing school 
administered under the terms of this Code of Aid; and  
 
(d) 
new initiatives. 
 
2. 
Schools will be notified individually in writing by the responsible Section of the 
Education Bureau of the grant(s) that has/have been approved, the amount of 
provision and the due date for requesting the payment/reimbursement of the F&E 
subsidy.  Schools should then proceed with the procurement exercise as soon as 
possible, following the procurement procedures in the prevailing circular(s)/ circular 
memorandum(s) in force and the Guidelines on Procurement Procedures in Aided 
Schools available on the Education Bureau homepage. 
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
Principles of Procurement (also applicable for procurement charged to the CFEG) 
 
3. 
For single purchases exceeding $200,000, tenders from at least 5 suppliers should 
be obtained. 
4. 
For single purchases not exceeding $200,000, purchases may be arranged by 
obtaining 2 or more quotations (i.e. above $5,000 to $50,000, by at least 2 oral 
quotations and above $50,000 to $200,000, by at least 5 written quotations) with the 
lowest offer to specification being accepted.  Where the total value of the purchase 
of any stores and services does not exceed $5,000, schools are not required to conduct 
any competitive bidding, subject to minor purchase of store and services being made 
to meet immediate needs and the school staff at the appropriate level being satisfied 
that such purchases are essential and his/her certifying that the prices are fair and 
reasonable and such records being properly kept by schools. 
 

=== Page 181 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
181 
 
Tender Opening and Vetting Committee (TOVC) 
 
5. 
The Principal should appoint a TOVC at least 3 working days before the tender 
opening date.  The TOVC will be responsible for opening, vetting and referring 
tender documents to the appropriate subject teacher(s) and administrative staff for 
evaluation and recommendation before the tender documents are referred to the 
Tender Approving Committee for consideration. 
 
6. 
A TOVC should comprise no less than 2 staff members, one with the salary point 
not lower than Master Pay Scale Point 25 and the other of a rank not lower than a 
Clerical Assistant or equivalent. 
 
Approving Authority for Procurement of Stores and Services 
 
7. 
Purchase of store and services not exceeding $5,000 and oral quotations above 
$5,000 to $50,000 shall be approved by the Principal/Deputy Head.  For schools 
without Deputy Head, the approving authority rests with the Principal. 
 
8. 
Written quotations above $50,000 to $200,000 shall be approved by the Principal. 
 
9. 
Tenders above $200,000 shall be approved by a Tender Approving Committee 
comprising the School Supervisor/Manager, the Principal, a teacher and a 
representative of the Parent-Teacher Association or a parent manager. 
 
10. 
The School Management Committee should ensure that: 
 
(a) the procurement procedures laid down by the Education Bureau are complied 
with; 
 
(b) the designated purpose(s) of each grant is/are met; 
 
(c) proper records of the quotations and tenders are available for inspection by the 
Education Bureau; and 
 
(d) a separate section on the set-up fund for furniture and equipment should be 
included in new schools’ audited annual account with details by items and 
subjects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== Page 182 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
182 
 
Payment and Accounting Arrangements 
 
11. 
The arrangements for payment/reimbursement of approved non-recurrent F&E 
subsidy to aided schools are set out in the respective approval letters to individual 
schools. 
 
12. 
Schools should record the income and expenditure separately for the non-recurrent 
subsidy under F&E Account for individual projects in accordance with the approval 
letter.  The F&E items purchased should be recorded in the Fixed Assets Register.  
Schools should observe the requirements laid down in the relevant Circular 
Memorandum on Annual Accounts of Aided Schools. 
(updated on 1 September 2017) 
 
 

=== Page 183 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
183 
 
Appendix 17 
 
 
Non-recurrent Grants (Major Repairs and projects of $50 million and below) 
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
Major Repairs Grants for items costing at or above the specified threshold 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 
I. 
For estate schools 
1. 
Requests 
for 
subsidy 
towards 
the 
cost 
of 
items 
in 
respect 
of 
internal/external/structural repair works costing at or above a specified threshold 
must be submitted to the Education Bureau via the appropriate channel as 
detailed in the call circular issued annually to schools.  The completed 
applications should reach the Education Bureau not later than the specified date. 
With effect from 1 September 2025, the threshold for repair item is adjusted to 
$10,000 for special schools.  The threshold is subject to review and adjustment 
by the Education Bureau from time to time.  (Remarks: The threshold in 2024/25 
school year was $6,000 for special schools.)  (updated on 1 September 2025) 
2. 
In making their application of works, schools will have to specify the location 
and details of works to be done without giving the estimated costs and state the 
reasons why the work requests are needed. 
3. 
Applications will be vetted by the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau.  The term consultants will conduct technical vetting of schools’ 
applications, i.e. categorizing the work type, providing recommendations on the 
estimated costs and providing comments as necessary on the technical aspects of 
the works proposed by the schools to the Architectural Services Department (for 
external/structural repairs works) and Education Bureau (for internal repairs 
works) for considerations.  (updated on 1 September 2024) 
4. 
Subject to the availability of funds, the Education Bureau will inform schools of 
the approved projects.  
5. 
For schools with approval given, the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau will liaise with individual schools to arrange for the works programme. 
All repairs works will be carried out by contractors supervised by the term 
consultants appointed by the Education Bureau.  All approved works are expected 
to be completed within the same major repairs cycle (i.e. completed before the 
next round of application in the following year) and schools should take all 
necessary measures to facilitate the contractors and term consultants appointed 
by the Education Bureau to take forward the approved projects.   
(updated on 1 September 2024) 

=== Page 184 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
184 
 
6 .  
Requests for subsidy in respect of major repairs which have not been included 
in the Estimates will not normally be considered unless they are of an emergency 
or unforeseen nature.  (updated on 1 September 2024) 
7. 
For items involving works in a non-school portion, the school should state clearly 
when submitting the application.  Normally, the team consultants will not be 
responsible for any works on non-school portion which is separately identifiable 
from the school portion.  The term consultants will only undertake works in a 
non-school portion when it is inseparable from the school portion at which 
approved repair works are to be carried out.  Prior to commencement of works in 
the non-school portion, the school is required to agree in writing the scope of 
works and to pay the necessary costs with an on cost at prevailing rate charged 
for the works in the non-school portion.  
 
Note 
All School Management Committees, as building tenants, should be responsible for 
the safety and soundness of their buildings.  The term consultant appointed by the 
Education Bureau, acting in its role as works agent, would be responsible only for the 
sufficiency of the actual repair work projects undertaken by them.  
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
II. 
For non-estate schools 
 
1. Requests 
for 
subsidy 
towards 
the 
cost 
of 
items 
in 
respect 
of 
internal/external/structural repair works costing at or above a specified threshold 
must be submitted to the Education Bureau via the appropriate channel as detailed 
in the call circular issued annually to schools.  The completed applications should 
reach the Education Bureau not later than the specified date.  With effect from 1 
September 2025, the threshold for repair item is adjusted to $10,000 for special 
schools.  The threshold is subject to review and adjustment by the Education 
Bureau from time to time.  (Remarks: The threshold in 2024/25 school year was 
$6,000 for special schools.)  (updated on 1 September 2025) 
2. In making their application of works, schools will have to specify the scope of 
works to be done without giving the estimated costs and state the reasons why the 
work requests are needed.  
3. Applications will be vetted by the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau.  The term consultants will conduct technical vetting of schools’ 
applications, i.e. categorizing the work type, providing recommendations on the 
estimated costs and providing comments as necessary on the technical aspects of 
the works proposed by the schools to the Education Bureau for considerations. 
(updated on 1 September 2024) 

=== Page 185 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
185 
 
4. Subject to the availability of funds, the Education Bureau will inform schools of 
the approved projects. 
5. For schools with approval given, the term consultants appointed by the Education 
Bureau will liaise with individual schools to arrange for the works programme. All 
repairs works will be carried out by contractors supervised by the term consultants 
appointed by the Education Bureau.  All approved works are expected to be 
completed within the same major repairs cycle (i.e. completed before the next 
round of application in the following year) and schools should take all necessary 
measures to facilitate the contractors and term consultants appointed by the 
Education 
Bureau 
to 
take 
forward 
the 
approved 
projects.  
(updated on 1 September 2024)  
(Remarks: For projects of estimated cost exceeding $2 million each approved 
before 1 April 2019, the professional officers of the Architectural Services 
Department will continue to deliver the projects and arrange contractors to carry 
out the repair works.) 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
6. Requests for subsidy in respect of major repairs which have not been included in 
the Estimates will not normally be considered unless they are of an emergency or 
unforeseen nature.  (updated on 1 September 2024) 
7. For items involving works in a non-school portion, the school should state clearly 
when submitting the application.  Normally, the term consultants / Architectural 
Services Department will not be responsible for any works in non-school portion 
which is separately identifiable from the school portion. The team consultants / 
Architectural Services Department will only undertake works in a non-school 
portion when it is inseparable from the school portion at which approved repair 
works are to be carried out.  Prior to commencement of works in the non-school 
portion, the school is required to agree in writing the scope of work and to pay the 
necessary costs with an on cost at prevailing rate charged for the works in the non-
school portion.  
(updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
 
Deed of Covenant 
 
8. Where capital works exceeding $0.5 million is to be carried out in school buildings 
erected on private land, the trustees or legal representatives of the sponsor must 
execute under seal and register by Memorial in the Lands Department a Deed of 
Covenant which shall contain such provisions as the Permanent Secretary may 
require, and shall in particular provide the following: 
(a) 
That the premises will be used solely for approved educational purposes or 

=== Page 186 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
186 
 
other purposes approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
(b) 
That the school will be managed in accordance with the Education 
Ordinance and its subsidiary legislation and the Code of Aid for Special 
Schools. 
 
(c) 
That if the sponsor should at any time desire to be released from the 
foregoing obligations, or if for any reason the school ceases to be 
accepted by the Permanent Secretary as an aided school, the sponsor may 
be required to repay the whole amount of grant to the Government or an 
equitable proportion of such grant as assessed by the Government. 
 
(d) 
That in the event of any breach or non-performance of any of the terms, 
covenants and conditions contained in the Deed of Covenant, it shall be 
lawful for the Government to re-enter upon the lot and the school without 
the payment of any compensation whatsoever. 

=== Page 187 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
187 
 
Appendix 18 
 
 
Notes on Grant for Capital Cost for Building 
(for Projects exceeding $50 million) 
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
Procedures Concerning Application for the Non-recurrent Grant for Capital Cost for 
Building 
 
1. Subject to funding and policy, the Permanent Secretary may approve non-
recurrent grant towards the capital cost for the extension or redevelopment of 
existing school premises.  (updated on 1 September 2016) 
 
2. The application for the grant for capital cost for building by the School 
Management Committee (the Applicant) should give full justification for the 
proposal, including the proposed scope, the estimated cost, and the amount the 
Applicant will contribute.  In addition the Applicant must state in its application 
whether it intends to carry out the project by private contract under government 
subvention.  The Applicant should state whether a grant of site is required from 
the Government or whether the proposed project is to be built on land already 
available.  For a proposed project on private land, the Applicant should check 
with the relevant District Lands Office that the lease conditions of the land will 
permit the proposed development.  A statement regarding the land title, signed by 
the trustee or the legal representative of the grantee should be forwarded with 
the proposal to the Permanent Secretary for consideration.  This statement 
should show the location, lot number of the areas to be used.  All expenditure 
prior to notification in writing by the Permanent Secretary of the approval of the 
non-recurrent grant will be the sole liability of the Applicant.  (updated on 1 September 
2016) 
 
3. Consideration and approval for non-recurrent grant is subject to the conditions set 
out by the Permanent Secretary.  Funding consideration is subject to resource 
allocation and the Finance Committee of the Legislative Council.  The proposed 
project should be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the 
prevailing subvention policy and conditions set out by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
4.  “Non-subvented” portion if required by the Applicant may be included in the 
project subject to approval of the Permanent Secretary even when the full cost 
required, including consultancy and construction, etc., for the non-subvented 
portion is borne by the Applicant.  Such non-subvented portion and the related 
cost will not be eligible for recurrent or non-recurrent subsidy from the Government. 
 

=== Page 188 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
188 
 
5.  Subject to justification for the proposal, the Permanent Secretary will issue a 
project definition statement to the Works Agent for feasibility study and follow up 
action.  The Permanent Secretary will issue the project definition statement direct 
to the Applicant opted to carry out the project under private contract.  Under this 
self-delivery mode, the Applicant will be responsible for preparing a Technical 
Feasibility Statement for submission to the Education Bureau for comment and 
approval. 
 
6.  Upon written approval of the Technical Feasibility Statement and confirmation to 
proceed with the pre-tender works, the Applicant can obtain technical and fee 
proposals for architectural and associated consultancy services and quantity 
surveying consultancy services.  Only registered consultants should be invited 
for tender and the invitation documents should be forwarded to the Permanent 
Secretary for comment. 
 
7. The Applicant should submit recommendations for appointment of consultants to 
the Permanent Secretary for approval on the recommendations of the Architectural 
Services Department (ArchSD).  The technical proposal and fee proposal are to 
be kept distinctly separated.  Any opening of fee proposals prior to the Education 
Bureau/ArchSD examination of the technical marking 
will immediately 
invalidate the tender or disqualify the tender from subvention.  The 
recommended technical and fee proposals should not be accepted until written 
approval is given by the Permanent Secretary.  The Applicant should also submit 
tender documents for various pre-tender works like site investigation for approval 
before commissioning the contracts. 
 
8.  The Applicant should only proceed into the post-contract stage upon the written 
notification of the Finance Committee’s funding approval.  Prior to issue of tender 
for construction work, the Applicant should forward a list of proposed tenderers 
together with the draft tender documents for the ArchSD’s comment and the 
Education Bureau’s approval. 
9. For post-contract works, a minimum of 10 tenderers should be invited to tender.  
The Applicant should require the tenderers to deposit their tenders into the Public 
Works Tender Board’s (PWTB) Tender Box.  In this regard, the Applicant should 
give advance notice to the Secretary of the PWTB of the works and the tender 
closing date.  The tender closing date and time must be set at noon on a Friday 
not being a public holiday.  Upon receipt of tenders, the Applicant will be informed 
by PWTB for collection of tenders. 
 
 
 

=== Page 189 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
189 
 
10. The Applicant should submit the tender recommendation to the Education Bureau 
for approval.  It should be noted that without exceptionally valid justifications, the 
Applicant is required to accept the lowest complying tenders.  The Applicant 
must not accept any tender unless there is prior approval from the Permanent 
Secretary.  The school shall be liable for the consequences of accepting tenders 
in excess of the approved project estimates without prior approval from the 
Education Bureau. 
 
11. Any financial commitment accepted without the prior approval of the Permanent 
Secretary shall be the sole responsibility of the sponsor.  After the Permanent 
Secretary has given approval for the recommended tender, the Applicant may 
arrange for the signing of the contract and the commencement of construction 
work in accordance with the terms of the contract.  A copy of the signed contract 
should be submitted to the Permanent Secretary for record. 
 
12. When a project is not fully financed through the capital subvention, the school 
should use up its agreed contribution or any other payment arrangement as referred 
to in the Letter of Approval (excluding contribution to provide furniture and 
equipment, if applicable) before requesting payment of the subvention.  If the 
total tender price is higher than the estimated construction cost of the school as 
referred to in the Letter of Approval, the school should also absorb the difference 
according to the payment arrangement as stated in the Letter of Approval. 
 
13. Where the new building or extension is to be erected on private land, the trustees 
or legal representatives of the sponsor must execute under seal and register by 
Memorial in the Lands Department a Deed of Covenant which shall contain such 
provision as the Permanent Secretary may require, and shall in particular provide 
the following: 
 
(a) 
That the premises will be used solely for approved educational purposes or 
other purposes approved by the Permanent Secretary. 
(b) 
That the school will be managed in accordance with the Education 
Ordinance and its subsidiary legislation and the Code of Aid for Special 
Schools. 
(c) 
That if the sponsor should at any time desire to be released from the 
foregoing obligations, or if for any reason the school ceases to be accepted 
by the Permanent Secretary as an aided school, the sponsor may be required 
to repay the whole amount of grant to the Government or an equitable 
proportion of such grant as assessed by the Government. 
(d) 
That in the event of any breach or non-performance of any of the terms, 
covenants and conditions contained in the Deed of Covenant, it shall be 
lawful for the Government to re-enter upon the lot and the school without 
the payment of any compensation whatsoever. 

=== Page 190 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
190 
 
14. Payment of capital subvention to a school is subject to the conditions stated in the 
Letter of Approval issued by the Permanent Secretary to the school receiving the 
subvention.  Interim payment of building grant may be requested after the agreed 
contribution of the school towards the building cost has been fully expended.  
Requests for payment by the Applicant must be supported by properly receipted 
bills and where an architect is employed, by the architect’s certificate to the effect 
that the work for which payment is claimed, has been satisfactorily completed.  
Where circumstances justify e.g. the original receipts, invoices or certificates 
submitted are found not acceptable, the Permanent Secretary could cease to make 
payment of subvention to the school and the school will repay partly or fully the 
subvention received if required by the Permanent Secretary. 
 
15. The final submission of original invoices and receipts for works should be made 
to the Permanent Secretary within the Period of Final Measurement as stated in the 
building contract (usually 12 months from the date of practical completion of the 
project).  Under normal circumstances, the account of the project should be 
closed as soon as possible and in any event within 3 years from the handover of 
the completed school building. 
 
16. Current consultancy guidelines mandate Bills of Quantities.  It should also be 
noted that all materials and workmanship for any works must be in accordance 
with the latest edition of the “General Specification for Buildings” published by 
the ArchSD. 
 
17. For projects of $50 million and below, please refer to Appendix 17. 
(with effect from 22 January 2021) 
 
The above serves the purpose of a general guide which will be revised from time to time 
in accordance with the prevailing policy and practice. 

=== Page 191 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
191 
 
Appendix 19 
 
School Assets and Settlement of Claims 
 
(A) Procedures for Assessment and Settlement of Claims for Damage or Destruction of 
Standard Items Caused by Fire, Natural Disaster or Perils 
 
1. When there is a fire or natural disaster or an occurrence of the perils as described in 
Section 47(a) in an aided school, the Supervisor/Head of the school, apart from reporting 
the incident immediately to the relevant government departments such as the Hong 
Kong Police Force and the Fire Services Department, must also report the matter 
immediately to the respective Senior School Development Officer who will arrange a 
joint inspection with the Senior Supplies Officer of the Education Bureau and officers of 
other relevant government departments such as the Architectural Services Department, 
Water Supplies Department etc. to conduct a preliminary investigation at the earliest 
opportunity.  The purpose of the visit is to identify the extent of damage caused.  In 
the case of fire, a report from the Fire Services Department on the incident will also be 
necessary. 
 
2. Based on the report of the school, the estimated cost of replacement of furniture and 
equipment and repairs to the school premises will be assessed, which will form the basis 
for determining the amount of subsidy to be paid to the school by the Government. 
 
3. The full cost of damage or loss caused by fire or natural disaster or resulting from 
the described perils in Section 47(a) will be paid to schools on the basis of the approved 
tendered cost or the actual cost, whichever is lower. 
 
4. Once the amount of subsidy is determined and approved, the school Supervisor will 
be advised to proceed with the purchase of furniture and equipment for replacement in 
accordance with the standard tendering procedures.  As regards the damage to school 
buildings, all repairs will be treated as emergency repairs and the standard procedures as 
stipulated at Appendix 17 should be followed. 
 
 
(B) Procedures for Assessment and Settlement of Claims for Losses of Standard Furniture 
and Equipment Caused by Theft and Burglary 
 
5. When there is a loss of standard items in an aided school, the Supervisor/Head of 
the school must report the loss immediately to the nearest police station of the Hong 
Kong Police Force and make a preliminary report to the respective Senior School 
Development Officer who will arrange a joint inspection with the Senior Supplies 
Officer of the Education Bureau to conduct a preliminary investigation at the earliest 
opportunity.  The purpose of the visit is to identify any security problems.  An 
investigation report from the Hong Kong Police Force on the incident will be required. 
 
6. The Supervisor/Head of the aided school will then proceed to investigate the loss 
fully and as soon as practicable, forward his detailed report with the following 
information, together with copies of other relevant documents, e.g. police reports, to the 
respective Senior School Development Officer: 

=== Page 192 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
192 
 
(a) 
details of the occurrence, including date, time, detailed description and 
cost (original/replacement) of furniture/equipment found lost; 
(b) 
progress of internal investigation; and 
(c) 
recommendations for clearing the loss and any action considered 
necessary to prevent a similar occurrence. 
 
7. The Supervisor/Head of an aided school is required to certify in each case that no 
fraud, suspected fraud, negligence or violation of an important point of principle is 
involved. 
 
8. Based on the reports of the school and the result of investigation by the Police and 
officers concerned, the estimated cost of replacement of furniture and equipment lost 
will be assessed, with the recommendation of the relevant officer, which will form the 
basis for determining the amount of subsidy to be paid to the school by the Government. 
 
9. The full cost of loss will be paid to the school on the basis of the approved tendered 
cost or the actual cost, whichever is lower. 
 
10. However, once the amount of subsidy is determined and approved, the school 
Supervisor will be advised to proceed with the purchase of furniture and equipment for 
replacement in accordance with the standard tendering procedures. 
 
Security Measures 
 
11. Supervisors of aided schools should take necessary security measures to protect the 
schools’ assets against all perils mentioned above.  Special attention should be paid to 
security measures against theft, burglary or robbery, particularly for movable assets 
such as cash and equipment. 
 
12. Supervisors are reminded that petty cash (Government portion and school portion, if 
any) kept in schools should not exceed the limits prescribed in the relevant circular 
currently in force.  In case there is a claim of loss in petty cash caused by the aforesaid 
perils, the amount of claim should be the actual amount lost (Government portion) or 
the prescribed limit, whichever is lower.  It is also advisable that collections and payments 
should be made through bank accounts as far as possible to minimise the risk of cash 
losses.  Cash collections, if any, should be banked as soon as practicable to reduce 
the risk of keeping or transporting cash in large sums. 
 
13. 
When it is necessary to transport cash, the following security measures are 
suggested: 
 
(a) If the amount exceeds $5,000 but is less than $10,000, 2 persons are required to 
escort the cash. 
 
(b) If the amount exceeds $10,000, commercial security guards should be hired. 

=== Page 193 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
193 
 
INDEX 
 
 
Topic 
Section (S) /Appendix (A) 
Accepting Donations 
S.18 
Accounts of Private Section 
S.77 
Accounts, school 
S.70 - 73 
Acting Appointments 
S.66, A.5 
Administration Grant 
S.21 
Administration Guide 
A.1 
Admission, pupils 
S.48, A.1 
Allowances 
S.23, A.3 
Appointment, additional managers 
S.4 
Appointments of staff 
S.53, A.4 
Appointment, teaching staff 
S.52 - 57, A.2 
Artisan, appointment 
A.2 
Artisan, salary 
A.3 
Artisan, qualification 
A.4 
Assistant Warden, appointment 
A.2 
Assistant Warden, salary 
A.3 
Assistant Warden, qualification 
A.4 
Audited Accounts, submission 
S.74 - 75 
Block Insurance Policy 
S.47 
Boarding fee, charge 
S.12 
Boarding fee, collection 
S.13 
Boarding fee, remission 
S.14 
Brailling staff, appointment 
A.2 
Brailling staff, salary 
A.3 
Brailling staff, qualification 
A.4 
Building Grants 
A.18 
Calculation of Salaries Grant 
S.20 
Charging subscriptions 
S.15 
Chest X-ray examination, teaching staff 
S.54 
Class structure 
S.11(b) 
Classification of staff 
S.27 
Clerical Staff, appointment 
A.2 
Clerical Staff, salary 
A.3 
Clerical Staff, qualification 
A.4 
Collection of subscriptions 
S.16 
Composite Furniture and Equipment Grant 
S.7, A.15 
Conditions for Promotion, teaching staff 
S.64 - 65, A.5 
Contract of Service, teaching staff 
S.59 
Cook, appointment 
A.2 
Cook, salary 
A.3 

=== Page 194 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
194 
 
Cook, qualification 
A.4 
Curriculum and Time-table 
A.1 
Damage, settlement of claims 
S.47, A.19 
Dismissal, teaching staff 
S.52, S.61(g), A.7, A.8 
Dismissal/Termination of appointment of teacher 
S.52, S.61, A.8 
Donations, acceptance 
S.18 
Educational Psychologist, appointment 
A.2 
Educational Psychologist, salary 
A.3 
Educational Psychologist, qualification 
A.4/Attachment J 
Employment, supply teacher 
S.35, A.3 
Employment, temporary clerk 
S.38(a) 
Employment, temporary teacher 
S.36 
Expansion of Aided Special Schools 
S.11(a) 
Expenditure of School Income 
S.17(a) 
Fees 
S.12 - 13 
Furniture and Equipment, Tender 
A.16 
Grant, kinds 
S.7 
Head, appointment 
S.53, A.4 
Head, paid study leave 
S.32 
Head, ranking 
A.2/Attachment A 
Houseparent, appointment, 
A.2 
Houseparent, salary 
A.3 
Houseparent, qualification 
A.4 
Houseparent, promotion 
A.5 
Houseparent-in-charge, appointment 
A.2 
Houseparent-in-charge, salary 
A.3 
Houseparent-in-charge, qualification 
A.4 
Increments for experience 
S.26 
Insurance 
S.47 
Janitor Staff, appointment 
A.2 
Laboratory Technician, appointment 
A.2 
Laboratory Technician, salary 
A.3 
Laboratory Technician, qualification 
A.4 
Laboratory Technician, promotion 
A.5 
Laboratory Technician, terms of employment 
A.6  
Low-vision training teacher, appointment 
A.2 
Low-vision training teacher, qualification 
A.4 
Major Repairs, non-recurrent grants 
A.17 
Maternity Leave, teaching staff 
S.28(a), A.11 
Medical examination, teaching staff 
S.54 
Mobility Instructor, appointment 
A.2 
Motor Driver, appointment 
A.2 
Motor Driver, salary 
A.3 
Motor Driver, qualification 
A.4 
No-pay leave, teaching staff 
S.30 

=== Page 195 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
195 
 
Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
S.44(a) 
Non-recurrent Grant, School-based 
Psychological Service 
Non-recurrent Grant, resource teaching service 
for children comorbid with autism spectrum 
disorder
S.44(b) 
 
S.44(c) 
Non-teaching staff, paid leave 
S.33, A.12 
Non-teaching staff, paid maternity leave 
S.28, A.11 
Non-teaching staff, paid sick leave 
S.28, A.10 
Non-teaching staff, Provident Fund 
S.69 
Non-teaching staff, retirement 
S.63(a) 
Non-teaching staff, temporary replacement 
S.37 - 38    
Notice on Termination of Service, teaching staff 
S.61(a-e) 
Occupational Therapist, appointment 
A.2 
Occupational Therapist, salary 
A.3 
Occupational Therapist, qualification 
A.4 
Occupational Therapist, promotion 
A.5 
Occupational Therapist Assistant, appointment 
A.2 
Occupational Therapist Assistant, salary 
A.3 
Occupational Therapist Assistant, qualification 
A.4 
Operating Expenses Block Grant 
S.7, A.14 
Outside duties, teaching staff 
S.67 
Paid study leave, Head 
S.32 
Paid study leave, teaching staff 
S.29 
Paid leave, non-teaching staff 
S.33, A.12 
Paid maternity leave, non-teaching staff 
S.28(b), A.11 
Paid sick leave, non-teaching staff 
S.28(b), A.10 
Paternity Leave 
S.28, S.33, S.59, A.10 
Payment of salaries 
S.24, A.9 
Payment of Salaries Grant 
S.20 
Physiotherapist, appointment 
A.2 
Physiotherapist, salary 
A.3 
Physiotherapist, qualification 
A.4 
Physiotherapist, promotion 
A.5 
Primary School Master/Mistress Grade Structure 
A.2/Attachment B 
Premises, letting 
S.19 
Private section, accounts 
S.77 
Probationary period, teaching staff 
S.61 
Procedures, Non-recurrent and Capital Grants 
S.46, A.16 - 18 
Programme Worker, appointment 
A.2 
Programme Worker, salary 
A.3 
Programme Worker, qualification 
A.4 
Programme Worker, promotion 
A.5 
Promotion, teaching staff 
S.64 - 65, A.5 
Provident Fund, non-teaching staff 
S.69 
Provident Fund, teaching staff 
S.68, A.13 
Pupils, admission 
S.48, A.1 
Pupils, suspension and expulsion 
S.49, A.1 

=== Page 196 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
196 
 
Qualifications for appointment, teaching staff 
A.4 
Qualifications for appointment, 
laboratory technician
A.4 
Qualifications for appointment, non-teaching staff 
A.4 
Ranking, Head 
A.2/Attachment A 
Recurrent Grants 
S.7 
Reduction of Grants 
S.9(a-b) 
Refund of Grants 
S.9(c), S.10 
Regrading of staff 
S.64 
Rent and Rates Grants 
S.43 
Resignation, teaching staff 
S.61(d-e) 
Resource Teacher, appointment 
A.2 
Retirement, non-teaching staff 
S.63 
Retirement, teaching staff 
S.63(b) 
Revised Administration Grant 
S.21 
Salaries Grant 
S.20 
Salaries, payment 
S.24, A.9 
Salary scales and allowances of staff 
S.23, A.3 
School accounts 
S.70 - 73 
School Executive Officers, appointment 
A.2 
School Executive Officers, salary 
A.3 
School Executive Officers, qualification 
A.4/Attachment L 
School nurses, appointment 
A.2 
School nurses, salary 
A.3 
School nurses, qualification 
A.4 
School nurses, promotion 
A.5 
School premises, use 
S.51 
School Social Worker, appointment 
A.2 
School Social Worker, salary 
A.3 
School Social Worker, qualification 
A.4 
Senior Teacher Post of English, appointment 
A.2, A.5 
Settlement of claims, damage 
S.47, A.19 
Sick leave, teaching staff 
S.28(a), A.10 
Special driver, appointment 
A.2 
Special driver, salary 
A.3 
Special Leave, paid 
S.31(a) 
Special tuberculosis leave 
S.28(a), A.10 
Speech Therapist, appointment 
A.2 
Speech Therapist, salary 
A.3 
Speech Therapist, qualification 
A.4/Attachment K 
Staff Establishment 
S.22, A.2 
Storms and Heavy Persistent Rain 
A.1 
Submission of audited accounts 
S.74 - 75 
Subscriptions, charge 
S.15(a-b) 
Subscriptions, collection 
S.16 
Subscriptions, transfer 
S.15(c) 
Subscriptions, use 
S.17 
Subsidised School Provident Fund 
S.68, A.13 
Supply laboratory technician, employment 
S.35 
Supply school nurse, employment 
S.37(b) 

=== Page 197 ===
CODE OF AID FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS 
197 
 
Supply teacher, employment 
S.35 
Suspension and expulsion, pupils 
S.49, A.1 
Suspension, teaching staff 
S.61(f) 
Teacher Assistant, appointment 
A.2 
Teacher Assistant, salary 
A.3 
Teacher Assistant, qualification 
A.4 
Teacher Assisting in Speech Therapy, appointment A.2 
Teacher Librarian, appointment 
A.2 
Teaching practice arrangements 
S.50 
Teaching staff, appointment 
S.52 - 57, A.2 
Teaching staff, Chest X-ray examination 
S.54 
Teaching staff, contract of service 
S.59 
Teaching staff, dismissal 
S.52, S.61(g), A.7 - 8 
Teaching staff, increments for experience 
S.26 
Teaching staff, maternity leave 
S.28(a), A.11 
Teaching staff, medical examination 
S.54 
Teaching staff, no-pay leave 
S.30 
Teaching staff, notice on termination of service 
S.61(a-e) 
Teaching staff, outside duties 
S.67 
Teaching staff, paid study leave 
S.29 
Teaching staff, probationary period 
S.60 
Teaching staff, promotion 
S.64 - 65, A.5 
Teaching staff, Provident Fund 
S.68, A.13 
Teaching staff, qualifications for appointment 
A.4 
Teaching staff, retirement 
S.63(b) 
Teaching staff, sick leave 
S.28(a), A.10 
Teaching staff, special leave with pay 
S.31(a) 
Teaching staff, special tuberculosis leave 
S.28(a), A.10 
Teaching staff, suspension 
S.61(f) 
Temporary laboratory technician, employment 
S.36 
Temporary specialist staff, employment 
S.37 
Temporary non-specialist staff, employment 
S.38 
Temporary teacher, employment 
S.36 
Transfer of subscriptions 
S.15(c) 
Tuition fee, charge 
S.12 
Unqualified teacher, employment 
S.58 
Use of school premises 
S.51 
Watchman, appointment 
A.2 
Watchman, salary 
A.3 
Watchman, qualification 
A.4 
Warden, appointment 
A.2 
Warden, salary 
A.3 
Warden, qualification 
A.4 
Withdrawal of Grants 
S.9(a-b) 
Workshop Attendant, appointment 
A.2 
Workshop Attendant, salary 
A.3 
Workshop Attendant, qualification 
A.4 
 
Note:  S   - Section(s) 
 A  - Appendix/Appendices 
